{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil Times New Roman;}{\f3\fnil Calibri;}{\f4\fnil\fcharset1 Segoe UI Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sl240\slmult1\f0\fs24\lang9\par

\pard\li1382\sb68\sl184\slmult0\cf1\fs16 t\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3518\sl874\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3518\sb524\sl874\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs76 READER FOR\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2856\sl483\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2856\sb86\sl483\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs42 CHRUCH ADMINISTRATION\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1972\ri1739\sb93\sl900\slmult0\tx5395\cf1\b\f0\fs42 EVANGELICAL THEOLOGICAL COLLEGE \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs42\tab\b (ETC)\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3326\sb345\sl483\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs42 ADDIS ABABA, ETHIOPIA\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2635\sl391\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li2635\sb140\sl391\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs34 COMPILED BY DR. ENDALE G.MESKEL\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1425\sl391\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li1425\sb136\sl391\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs34 ADOPTED BY PASTOR GEBREIGHIZIABIHER KAHSAI\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5428\sb373\sl483\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs42 2016\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li3072\sl1104\slmult0\f1\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3072\sb852\sl1104\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs96 LESSON ONE\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1819\ri936\sb70\sl1620\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs96 ESTABISHING THE \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs96 LOCAL CHURCH\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par

\pard\li8937\sl276\slmult1\fs24\par

\pard\li8937\sb146\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\i\f0 Establishing the Churc\super\fs36 h\cf0\nosupersub\b0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3288\sb245\sl299\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-5\f0\fs26\page 51\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb244\sl299\slmult0\tx779\tx1244\cf1\f0\fs26 n \tab w \tab\expndtw-8 waho n\fs24 do \expndtw0 noth\fs26 m\fs24 ave \fs26 a \cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li8927\sl216\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 people  to \fs26 be received into me\fs24 m\fs26 b\super\fs39 er\fs36 ship who\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li8927\sl234\slmult0\tx12580\tx13684\cf1\f0\fs26 good testimony in the Christia\tab life,\fs24\tab are\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi14\li8913\ri763\sl280\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs26 to God, and who are indifferent \fs14 i\super\fs21 n regard to \nosupersub\fs26 t\super\fs39 heir Christian \nosupersub\fs26 responsibilities, he will set the pattern for failu\super\fs36 re \fs39 in \fs36 the f\fs39 m\fs36 uture\nosupersub\fs26 e th \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 years\fs26 of the church. Also in his anxiety to \fs24 en\fs26 lar\fs24 gge mem-\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li4967\sl504\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs56 8\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3292\sb319\sl391\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs34 Establishing the C\super\fs51 hurch\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2006\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2006\sb104\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs22 AFTER \b THERE A.RE CONVE\super\fs33 RTS \nosupersub\b0\fs14 o\super\fs21 r prospective members either as\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2020\ri70\sb12\sl292\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw19\f0\fs14 the result of a ca\super\fs21 mpaign or because there are Christians who \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw22\f0\fs14 already live in the \super\fs21 locality, the next step is to form the be-\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 l i \expndtw20 evers into a local \super\fs21 church. \nosupersub\fs14  T\super\fs21 he strength of the local church\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2054\ri55\sb6\sl292\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw19\f0\fs14 is its membership.  S\super\fs21 table, faithful, instructed members nor-\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw21\f0\fs14 mally produce an act\super\fs21 ive, faithful, growing congregation. In \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw19\f0\fs14 the previous chapter w\super\fs21 e dealt with the importance of prepar-\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi3484\li2068\ri46\sb80\sl133\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw19\f0\fs14 This   preparation  in\super\fs21 cludes \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw17\f0\fs14 ing  converts  for  mem\super\fs21 bership.\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2083\ri26\sb25\sl291\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw19\f0\fs14 teaching the fundamen\super\fs21 tals of the Christian faith, for a faith-\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw19\f0\fs14 ful membership must be an ins\super\fs21 tructed membership. It is also \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw20\f0\fs14 of great importance that \super\fs21 the members manifest a true Chris-\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw19\f0\fs14 tian character.   Many have \super\fs21 an intellectual concept of Chris-\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi4\li2107\ri28\sb1\sl292\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw21\f0\fs14 tian truth but in actual life \super\fs21 do not manifest the fruit of true \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw17\f0\fs14 conversion. \b\fs22 A \b0\fs14 true Christian \super\fs21 is such because of the presence \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw19\f0\fs14 of vital spiritual life.  The w\super\fs21 ork of the church is carried for-\cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw18\f0\fs14 ward not simply by good men, or \super\fs21 even in\nosupersub\fs14 structed men, but by \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw23\f0\fs14 men  who have had contact with God\f2\emdash\f0 men who are filled \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw19\f0\fs14 with the Holy Spirit.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi244\li2136\ri54\sl295\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw19\f0\fs14 It is important that the church planter be deliberate about \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw17\f0\fs14 the acceptance of members into the fellowship of the church. \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 W \expndtw11 ith the first converts he establishes the pattern which will\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2145\sb1\sl297\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs26 be followed by the church in years to come. If he allows\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5188\sb115\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-7\b\f0 50\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par

\pard\li220\sb1\sl294\slmult0\cf1\expndtw8\f0\fs14\page bership roll, or to get financial or moral backin\super\fs21 g \nosupersub\fs26 for his church\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi14\li206\ri751\sb2\sl308\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs26 project, the worker should be careful about receiving those \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 who profess to be.Christians but may come to him from other \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 groups with doctrines contrary to those which he preaches. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 For example, the church planter's objective is to establish a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 self-supporting congregation.  If he takes into membership \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 those who have no sense of responsibility in this area, or who \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 do not believe in tithing, they will not only fail to support the\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li206\sb7\sl299\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\f0\fs26 work \fs14 themselves but discourage others from \fs26 participating in\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi9\li201\ri804\sb16\sl307\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs26 the support of the work. Another point where care should be \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 exercised is with groups that have split off from another \fs14 con-\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li201\sb17\sl299\slmult0\cf1\expndtw5\f0\fs14 gregation and desire to affiliate with the \fs26 new church. Some-\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi4\li191\ri824\sl317\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs26 times these are contentious people who have left their original \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 congregation because they could not have their own way.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi9\li182\ri853\sb7\sl302\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw18\f0\fs14 Such members will likely cause problems later on, \fs26 and their \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw26\f0\fs14 presence may be more damaging than beneficial to the \fs26 new\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi4\li177\ri818\sb98\sl208\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs26 church. The number of members is not as important as their loyalty and stability.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi244\li167\ri833\sb140\sl316\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs26 Since the stability of the church depends upon the charac-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 ter, faithfulness, and activity of the members, the first task in \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 organizing the church is to determine which people meet the\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li172\sb11\sl299\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\f0\fs14 requirements of membership.  A list \fs26 of members is basic to\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li162\sl208\slmult0\tx696\cf1\expndtw-9\f0\fs26 th eI \expndtw0\tab the\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1943\sl128\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs26 i so\fs14 fb the church\fs24 .\fs14 e\expndtw4 n g\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li407\sl234\slmult0\tx1128\cf1\f0\fs26 If \fs24\tab ch\fs26 urch\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2898\sl211\slmult0\cf1\expndtw28\f0\fs24 e\fs14 stabl\fs24 i\fs14 shed in an entirely new area,\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sl234\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 then  the evangelist or pastor will \fs26 have given the necessaryi\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi76\li143\ri862\sl289\slmult0\qj\tx6579\cf1\f0\fs26 nstruction \fs14 and examined \fs26 the converts one by one in anticipa-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs26 s tion of baptism. Those members whoqualify for bap \dn4 h \tab tism ould be accepted as members of the church. Applicants\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\up0\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li2793\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2793\sb198\sl253\slmult0\tx5913\cf1\expndtw-5\b\f0\fs22 52 \expndtw0\b0\tab\b\i A Guide to \i0 Church Planting\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\li2798\ri104\sb142\sl275\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 who have come from other churches or evangelical groups should be examined, too, since to fail to do so may introduce a weak or divisive element into the new church.\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi235\li2827\ri90\sb3\sl271\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 It would be wise for the worker to form an examining committee of the most mature Christians to consult with them about the candidates for membership. In this way, the members begin to share in the responsibility in the operation of the church from its inception.\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi225\li2870\ri51\sb4\sl270\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 Once there is a list of members, the next step is to confirm the worker who is to serve as pastor by obtaining the ap-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 proval of the body of believers. In the beginning this might seem to be an almost unnecessary procedure, since the new congregation will normally accept the worker they know, or \expndtw3 the worker who is suggested to them without question. How-\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 ever, we are teaching the new congregation the responsibil-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 ities which they must bear in the future, and it is preferable to introduce correct practices right from the beginning rather than to effect changes later on.\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi225\li2913\ri18\sl272\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 If the new church is formed as a result of the growth of \super\fs33 an \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 outstation of a mother church, the pastor of the mother \super\fs33 church, \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0 together with the official board will counsel the worker in t\expndtw0\super\fs33 he \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 development of the new church. The candidates for baptis\super\fs33 m \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\dn4\f0 will be examined by the board of the mother church in the \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0 usual way, until the new group is formed into an autono\expndtw0\super\fs33 mous \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 church. If a national organization exists, the m\super\fs33 atter of the \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 time in which the group can achieve autonomy wil\super\fs33 l be de-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 cided in consultation among \super\fs33 the local worker,\nosupersub\fs22  the pas\super\fs33 tor of \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 the mother church, and th\super\fs33 e officers of the national organiza-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 tion.\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi235\li2913\ri3\sl271\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 After choosing its pastor, the \super\fs33 church is now ready to elect \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 its official board. Usually \super\fs33 from three to seven deacons are \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0 chosen. For a small chu\expndtw0\super\fs33 rch, the smaller number is preferable, \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 particularly as it is unl\super\fs33 ikely that there will be sufficient ma-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9201\sl253\slmult0\up0\fs24\page\par
\par

\pard\li53\sb99\sl253\slmult0\tx5867\cf1\b\i\f0\fs22 Establishing the \i0 Church \b0\tab\expndtw-5\b 53\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi14\li39\ri1359\sb141\sl271\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 tore men to fill the posts. If all the members of the congrega-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 tion are new converts, it would be better to appoint an advisory committee and have the members ratified by \i the \i0 congregation, rather than to choose deacons at the start. This advisory committee could work with the pastor for a year and become acquainted with the organization and \i manage-\cf0\b0\i0\f1\line\cf1\b\i\f0 ment \i0 of church business.  Perhaps by the second year it would be possible to elect deacons if there are those who are \expndtw1 qualified to fill these posts.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi230\li29\ri1384\sb3\sl266\slmult0\qj\tx2713\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0 It is important to hold \expndtw0\b0\tab\expndtw2\b closely as possible to the standards \expndtw0 for deacons as outlined in the Scriptures. Acts 6:1-6 and 1 \expndtw2 Timothy 3:7-13 will serve as a guide.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi244\li15\ri1393\sb16\sl268\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 It should be understood that the deacons are chosen pri-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0 marily to relieve the pastor of certain material responsibilities \expndtw0 related to the congregation. The New Testament church had elders who served in the spiritual area of church government and ministry. In modern practice, the pastor is usually the only one who is recognized as an elder, unless he has an as-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 sistant. In view of this, deacons are often pressed into spir-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 itual responsibilities and must serve as a board of administra-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 tion in spiritual as well as material things. The matter of church discipline, for example, is usually handled by the pastor and the board of deacons.\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi230\li10\ri1394\sb44\sl275\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 The new church should probably hold a business meeting \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 once a year to confirm the pastor, or call a new one, and to \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 elect the official board. As the church becomes more estab-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 lished and the deacons have more experience, they \fs26 may be \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 elected for three-year terms. Some churches have found it \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 helpful to terminate the positions on different years. For \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 example, a three-deacon board the first time would be elected \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0 in this way: One deacon for a three-year term, another deacon \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 for \i a \i0 two-year term, and a third deacon for a one-year term.\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li6964\sl182\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs22 ,\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\li10\sb30\sl176\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\page After that, they are all elected for three-year terms so that\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\li6542\sl184\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li183\sb154\sl184\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs16 '\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li6542\sl253\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb96\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs22 rie\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li6542\sl198\slmult0\tx9633\tx10996\cf1\f0\fs22 ,\tab\expndtw-8 .1 '\expndtw0\tab\expndtw-8\f2\bullet\f0  i\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\li10569\sl108\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 I :\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li5212\sl276\slmult1\f1\par
\par

\pard\li5212\sb60\sl276\slmult1\cf1\b\f0 A Guide to \i Church Planting\cf0\b0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\cf1\b\f0\fs24             there is never a complete turnover in the membership of the official board in one year. Also, many churches have adopted a policy that permits a deacon to serve for two consecutive three-year terms, after which he must remain inactive for at\cf0\b0\f1\fs12\par

\pard\li1713\ri316\sb4\sl307\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs24 least one year in order to give other qualified men an oppor-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 tunity to share in the administration of the church.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi254\li1732\ri311\sb1\sl302\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs24 The deacon board should meet at least once a month. The pastor is the chairman of the board and may call special meetings when the occasion requires.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi254\li1761\ri301\sb5\sl304\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs24 In the annual business meeting of the church, a financial report should be given to the congregation of all the financial activity of the church.  Major decisions such as acquiring church property should have the approval of the entire con-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 gregation in a business meeting, even though it may be neces-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 sary to call a special meeting for the purpose.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi263\li1780\ri296\sb1\sl302\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs24 In business meetings of the church, and in the monthly board meetings, the general procedures of parliamentary \super\fs36 law \nosupersub\fs24 should be followed.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3144\sb90\sl667\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs58\page 9\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1555\sb262\sl414\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs36 The Church in Action\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9019\sl300\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li10\ri898\sb5\sl300\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0 IN THE Fran c:HAPTEa, it was pointed out that the church has \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\up4\f0\fs24 a three-fold reason for being: to minister to God; to minister \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 to the believers; and to minister to the world in evangelism.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1469\sb210\sl276\slmult1\cf1\expndtw-8\b\dn4\f0\fs24 THE CHURCH'S NILVISTRY TO GOD\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi240\li10\ri894\sb97\sl301\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\up0\f0\fs24 Acts 13 presents a functioning church in Antioch which \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 became a missionary base for the spreading of the gospel to \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 the Gentiles. As they ministered to the Lord, the Holy Spirit \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 told them to set aside Barnabas and Saul for their missionary \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 ministry (v. 2). What does the term "ministered to the Lord," \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 really mean?  The underlying concept is that of worship. \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 Jesus said, "The true worshipers shall worship the Father in \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 Him" ( Jn 4:23). In Romans \fs22 12:1, \fs24 we are told that our reason-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 able service (or spiritual worship) consists not of offering \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 sacrifices of animals which have been slain, but in the pre-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 senting of our bodies as a living sacrifice to God. In other \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 words, spiritual worship does not consist simply in the ob-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 servance of religious rituals, but in the presentation of our \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 life in service to God. Our consecration to God is an accept-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 able spiritual worship. Worship also includes thanksgiving \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\b\f0\fs24 and praise to God \fs26 and \fs24 adoration in \fs26 which we recognize God's\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3168\sb143\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\b\f0 55\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li2918\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2918\sb160\sl253\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs22 56\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\li2903\sl176\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb59\sl176\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs22 A \i Guide to \i0 Church \i Planting\cf0\b0\i0\f1\par

\pard\li2903\sl176\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb97\sl176\slmult0\tx5756\cf1\b\i\f0\fs22 The Church in Action \b0\i0\tab\expndtw-7\b 57\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li2903\ri57\sb101\sl272\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs22 majesty and worth ( Heb 13:15-16 ). We are told that giving our gifts to God constitutes a form of spiritual sacrifice that pleases God ( Phil 4:18). Also, doing good and serving hu-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 manity is a service or an act of worship to God.\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi249\li2913\ri86\sb3\sl276\slmult1\qj\cf1\b\f0 It is necessary for us to realize that the function of the \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 church in worship is carried on not only when the congrega-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 tion is in the church building, but takes place every day as \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 Christians render service to God in prayer, in their offerings, \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 and in their service to humanity. Servants are exhorted to \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 serve their masters, not as menpleasers, but as servants of \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 God doing the will of God from the heart (Eph 6:6 ), so that \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 even humble household duties performed with the purpose \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 of pleasing God become an act of worship.  There is also \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 worship in a corporate sense when the church is assembled. \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 Evidently the Antioch church was engaged in this type of \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 spiritual service when the Holy Spirit spoke to the congre-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 gation ( Ac \fs20 13:1\fs22 -\fs20 2).\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi302\li2870\ri110\sb42\sl281\slmult0\qj\tx2923\cf1\b\f0\fs20 It is \fs22 the function of the church leadership to stimulate an \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab\b atmosphere of true worship. Worship does not consist of \super\fs33 the \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 mechanical singing of hymns or the saying of p\super\fs33 rayers. These \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 activities may become an expression of wor\super\fs33 ship, but if they \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\i\f0 are \i0 performed mechanically and \super\fs33 routinely their performance \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 does not constitute true wors\super\fs33 hip. Jesus said that the worship \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 must be performed in spirit \super\fs33 and in truth. The heart must \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 be involved; there mus\super\fs33 t be sincerity and a true desire to draw \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 near to God. Moreo\super\fs33 ver, it takes more than human effort to \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 constitute true w\super\fs33 orship. The Holy Spirit must inspire and \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\dn4\f0 guide us in our worshi\super\fs33 p. Paul tells us that through Christ we \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 have access in o\super\fs33 ne Spirit unto the Father ( Eph \fs30 2:18). \fs33 Again, \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\i\f0 we are \i0 told tha\super\fs33 t we cannot pray as we ought "but the Spirit \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 itself maketh inte\super\fs33 rcession for us . . . according to the will of \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 God" (Ro 8:2\super\fs33 8-27). To attain true spiritual worship is the \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0 highest func\super\fs33 tion of the church.\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1209\sb193\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\page THE CHURCH'S MINISTRY TO BELIEVERS\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi254\li91\ri1086\sb93\sl271\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\up0\f0 This ministry is both quantitative and qualitative. That is, the ministry of the church builds itself up in numbers and also in spiritual strength by maturing the spiritual life of the \expndtw1 individual members. Several different passages give emphasis \expndtw0 to this ministry. Ephesians \fs20 4:15\fs22 -\fs20 16 \fs22 points out that Christ is the Head of the body, and its members help each other mu-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0 tually by the operation of each member so that the individual \expndtw0 and the entire church are built up in love. The entire chapter \expndtw1 of 1 Corinthians 12 is devoted to the concept of the individual \expndtw0 Christian as a member of the body of Christ, and the contri-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 bution that each member can make to the whole.\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi249\li53\ri1143\sb11\sl268\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 The church is built up by love (1 Co 13) and by the exer-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 cise of spiritual gifts (1 Co \fs20 12:4\fs22 -\fs20 7). There follows \fs22 then a list \expndtw2 of spiritual gifts by which the church is built up and strength-\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 ened (1 Co 12:8-31; cf. Ro 12:4-10). \fs20 Some edify \fs22 the church by prophecy, exhortation, service, \fs20 and \fs22 teaching. The prin-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0 cipal ministries to the church (apostles, prophets, evangelists, \expndtw0 pastors and teachers) are for the purpose of preparing or "perfecting of the saints for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ" (Eph 4:11-13).\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi225\li33\ri1163\sb4\sl271\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 Prayer and intercession for the needs of our fellow be-\cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 lievers contribute to the strength of the different members of the church, and consequently the edification of the church itself (Eph 6:18-20; Ro 8:26-27).\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi235\li10\ri1178\sb11\sl273\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 The service to the fellow members of the body of Christ is \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 enjoined as a way of edifying the body of Christ. "Do good \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 to all men, especially those of the household of faith" (Gal \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\b\f0 6:10).\cf0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi297\li10\ri1196\sb82\sl319\slmult0\tx246\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0 THE CHURCH'S MINISTRY TO THE UNCONVERTED WORLD \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab\b Evangelism has always been, and continues to be the \cf0\b0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0 supreme mission of the church. It is commanded by Christ to\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par

\pard\li10540\sl69\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li1113\sb58\sl69\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs6 1\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li4579\sb32\sl115\slmult0\tx4881\cf1\dn4\f0\fs10 r \tab T\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4564\sl126\slmult0\cf1\b\up0\f0\fs14 I\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sl198\slmult0\tx369\cf1\f0\page F \f2\bullet\f0  \tab 1\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li10\ri1294\sl279\slmult0\qj\tx299\cf1\expndtw-8\f0\page 111110.111ii \cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab\expndtw-8 ,.;\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\li10\sl198\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\f0\page .0in.r11111.1,11ri 0.11:\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\sl140\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs14 7\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par

\pard\li2443\sl276\slmult1\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li2443\sb58\sl276\slmult1\cf1\f0 58\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li6024\sl192\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb22\sl192\slmult0\cf1\f0 A \i Guide to Church Planting\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9523\sl192\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb94\sl192\slmult0\tx6337\cf1\i\f0 The Church \i0 in \i\fs22 Action \i0\fs24\tab\expndtw2\dn4 59\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\up0\fs12\par

\pard\li2433\ri51\sb98\sl283\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs24 preach the gospel to every creature and to all nations \expndtw-7 ( Lk \expndtw0 24:47; Mt 28:16-20; Mk 16:15).\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi268\li2443\ri65\sb20\sl307\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs24 The coming of the Holy Spirit was to grant power to be-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 lievers to become witnesses to all nations (Ac 1:8).\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi264\li2448\ri2\sl300\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs24 A valid example and pattern is given by the early Chris-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 tians who "went everywhere preaching the Word" (Ac 8:4). \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 The testimony of the apostle Paul was that he "taught pub-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 l i cly, and from house to house, testifying both to the Jews \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 toward our Lord Jesus Christ (Ac 20:20-21).\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi268\li2443\ri41\sb1\sl304\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs24 As the closing days of this age approach God has com-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 manded the church to finish the task of total world evan-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 gelism. With the immense increase of population throughout the world, it is required that we use every legitimate means for spreading the gospel.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi297\li2400\ri26\sb4\sl305\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs24 The first and foremost means of spreading the gospel has always been, and will always be, the personal witness of Christians in their contacts with the unconverted. This effort can be backed up by the distribution of gospel literature, evangelism by radio, campaigns for mass evangelism, o\super\fs36 pen-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs24 air \i0 evangelism in the streets and parks, and evangelistic \super\fs36 cen-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 ters in ghettos and suburbs of the \super\fs36 cities.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi297\li2361\ri17\sl307\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs24 Each congregation should \super\fs36 consider that the unevangelized1 \nosupersub\fs24 people in the area are its p\super\fs36 articular responsibility. Each \fs33 con-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 gregation is responsib\super\fs36 le to take the gospel message to the \nosupersub\fs24 territory continge\super\fs36 nt to its base, at least halfway to the next; \nosupersub\fs24 congregation.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi302\li2323\ri46\sl305\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs24 One of the first steps \super\fs36 should be a survey of the area in order! \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 to find the open d\super\fs36 oors for witness. These may be simply the \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 opportunity to p\super\fs36 reach in a home of a believer, or to hold a \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\dn4\f0\fs24 gospel service \super\fs36 in the open air in a nearby village. The \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 church leader\super\fs36 s then \i assign \i0 faithful lay workers to witness \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 weekly in eac\super\fs36 h place. \b A \b0 branch Sunday school should be\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi67\li134\ri605\sb190\sl299\slmult0\qj\tx232\tx222\tx217\cf1\up0\f0\fs24\page established, with teachers from the mother church helping in \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24\tab this important outreach of their local church. Evening serv-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24\tab ices should be initiated. As converts are won, the process of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24\tab teaching must be commenced to prepare the new group for \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 baptism.  Eventually the outstation can be organized as a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 church, so that again the process of outreach and church \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 planting is repeated. This system of church extension is ef-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 fective in cities as well as in rural area. Like a strawberry \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 plant sends out its runners and produces new plants until the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 area is filled, so the establishing of new churches by means of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 lay preachers and outstations is a nonspectacular, but ef-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\dn4\f0\fs24 fective way to plant churches at the grass roots level.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi268\li96\ri715\sb16\sl291\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0\fs24 We have seen this method used in a city with such success \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 that a city with a beginning of \dn4 12 new churches, within 10 \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 years had multiplied until there were 40. This same method \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 in a rural area, coupled with a training program for workers, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 has produced 100 churches within a radius of 30 miles of the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 central city.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi297\li33\ri764\sb24\sl299\slmult0\qj\tx116\tx116\tx112\cf1\up0\f0\fs24 Emphasis must be continually placed on the participation \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24\tab of the total body of believers in evangelism. Great spiritual \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24\tab awakenings are always characterized by the zealous witness-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24\tab ing and fervent prayer participation by the body of Christian \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 believers. As a revival loses its original impetus, the tendency \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 is to place more responsibility in the hands of a few leaders. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 The activities tend to move out of the homes, the streets, and \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 the open air, and into the church building. The pastor as-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 sumes more and more the responsibility for evangelism until \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 the congregation's activity is mostly that of spectators. Thus \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 the evangelistic activity of the church tends to stagnate.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi268\li10\ri821\sb6\sl297\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs24 In order to keep the church growing and expanding, every \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 effort must be made to keep the congregation involved at the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 very center of evangelistic outreach. This means that con-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 stant emphasis must be placed on the day by day participa-\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li2625\sl299\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2625\sb282\sl299\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\b\f0\fs26 80\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li6230\sl211\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb21\sl211\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs26 A \i\fs24 Guide to Church Planting\cf0\b0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li2635\ri127\sb169\sl275\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs26 tion \fs24 of witnessing laymen. The leaders must see to it that the local church program provides opportunities for such involve-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 ment. A good motto: Every church a growing church with every member a witness.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi263\li2692\ri94\sb74\sl295\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs24 Methods and equipment will not take the place of the \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 Holy Spirit. In order for evangelism to be effective it must be \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 carried on with divine enablement. Nevertheless, the church \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 has before it today open doors of which past generations did \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 not even dream. We have modern transportation that enables \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 us to reach the remotest parts of the world. The printing\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2745\ri90\sb4\sl294\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs24 press, radio, television, and public address systems can all be used to speed the eternal gospel of Jesus Christ. Coupled with this, God has sent His Spirit to give spiritual enablement to His church. The church must take seriously its commission \fs26 to fulfill \fs24 its God-given task in today's world.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li12662\sl644\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par

\pard\li2890\sb362\sl644\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs56 10\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1176\sb223\sl414\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs36 Self-Continuity Functions\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri515\sb287\sl292\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0 WE HAVE SEEN \fs24 that the reason-for-being functions of the \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-1\b\f0\fs24 church are to worship and glorify God, to buildup the church, \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 and to evangelize the world. These functions must be kept \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\dn4\f0\fs24 primary. There are also self-continuity functions in which \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 a church must engage in order to carry out the reason-for-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 being \fs24 functions. These have to do with the administration of\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li53\ri481\sb1\sl292\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-2\b\up0\f0\fs24 the church, including assignments, finances, buildings, equip-\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 ment, and discipline. Then, in addition to the reason-for-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0\fs24 being and self-continuity functions, there may be auxiliary \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0\fs24 functions. For example, a program to provide social life \expndtw0\super\fs36 for \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 the young people of the church is neither a re\super\fs36 ason-for-being, \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 ror \fs24 a self-continuity function, but rather an \super\fs36 auxiliary func-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 tion. This is not to say that such a functi\super\fs36 on is not helpful.\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi230\li101\ri428\sl292\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\b\f0 A \fs24 problem arises when self-continuity functi\expndtw0\super\fs36 ons or auxiliary \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 functions substitute the reason-fo\super\fs36 r-being function. For ex-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 ample, the church must \super\fs36 support its pastor in order to carry \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 on its work. This is \super\fs36 a self-continuity function. However, \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 should the pastor begin t\super\fs36 o consider that the main function of \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-2\b\f0\fs24 the church is to pro\expndtw0\super\fs36 vide his support, then, in his mind at least, \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0\fs24 the self-continuity \expndtw0\super\fs36 function has become a reason-for-being \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 and is substituting \super\fs36 the true function of the church. Self-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3154\sb71\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-7\b\f0 61\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par

\pard\li1771\sb73\sl299\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs26 62\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5803\sb176\sl299\slmult0\tx16041\cf1\b\i\f0\fs26 A Guide to Church PlantingSelf-Continuity Functions\b0\i0\tab\b 63\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li1780\sb138\sl299\slmult0\tx8054\cf1\b\f0\fs26 continuity functions are necessary, but must be kept in theirproper place. \b0\tab\b p\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1819\sl299\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li1819\sb65\sl299\slmult0\tx8740\tx9138\cf1\b\f0\fs26 tionAdministration is one of the necessary self-continuits \b0\tab\b unc\expndtw2 y f \expndtw0\b0\tab\b\dn4 -\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri294\sb194\sl319\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\b\up0\f0\fs26\page ministration. The raising of finances is a self-continuity func-\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 tion. The church must develop financial resources in order to \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 carry on its work. The pastor should be supported, church\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li1833\sl299\slmult0\tx2543\cf1\b\f0\fs26 p \b0\tab\b of the church. The church requires the oversight of\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb56\sl208\slmult0\tx433\cf1\b\dn4\f0\fs26\page a \b0\tab\expndtw1\b buildings paid for, evangelistic efforts maintained, and mis-\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\up0\fs12\par

\pard\li2011\sb13\sl254\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs26 astor and official board, with heads for the Sunday\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb79\sl208\slmult0\tx1091\cf1\expndtw-4\b\f0\fs26\page school, \expndtw0\b0\tab\expndtw-1\b\dn4 sionary projects financed.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\up0\fs12\par

\pard\li1848\ri-16\sb3\sl326\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\b\f0\fs26 youth work, and other ministries, in order that the ma \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0\fs26 jectives of the church may be achieved. To carry out\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb49\sl299\slmult0\tx1259\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0\fs26\page in ob-\expndtw0\b0\tab\expndtw-1\b The financial help of the church depends largely on the in-\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li92\sb22\sl299\slmult0\tx1000\cf1\b\f0\fs26 these \b0\tab\expndtw2\b struction given to the church members at the time that they\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li1876\ri32\sb11\sl320\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs26 administrative functions, procedures should be established \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 to coordinate the different areas of responsibility. The pastor \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 should meet with the official board at regular intervals to \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 discuss current problems and opportunities. Assignments \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 may be required for special tasks, problems of personal con-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri341\sb15\sl315\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0\fs26\page are brought into membership. There is no better system for \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 the financing of the work of God than the biblical method \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 of individuals tithing their income to the church treasury. \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-1\b\f0\fs26 Many churches \i are \i0 hindered by lack of an adequate income, \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0\fs26 and this is often due to the lack of proper teaching of new\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li1934\sl234\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs26 fl\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi139\li1943\sl234\slmult0\tx9561\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0\fs26 ict among workers must be solved, decisions must be reached\expndtw0\b0\tab\expndtw2\b converts.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li1943\ri80\sl234\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs26 about the property, and there may be matters of finance or discipline of members to be considered.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi283\li1963\ri99\sb15\sl316\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs26 The pastor should meet with the official board at least once \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 a month. A regular agenda (list of matters to be considered) \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 should be drawn up, and each member of the committee \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 should have the opportunity of placing any item on the \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 agenda that he wishes to bring up for discussion. The dis-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 cussion should be carried on in a businesslike manner, with \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 attention given to parliamentary procedures; and each per-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\dn4\f0\fs26 son should be urged to express his opinion. A vote should be \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 taken on each matter, and the results recorded in the minutes.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi288\li1987\ri142\sl322\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs26 The pastor should seek a unanimous opinion on every im-\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 portant matter before the bo\super\fs39 ard. Care should be taken that \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 no one person dominates the \super\fs39 conversation or makes the de-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 cision for the rest. A b\super\fs39 usiness meeting of the official board is \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 in reality a spiritual \super\fs39 function. The meeting should be con-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 ducted in the spirit o\super\fs39 f Christ, and those participating should \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 seek the guidan\super\fs39 ce of the Holy Spirit in the decisions which \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 must be made.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi240\li10\ri379\sl299\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\up0\f0\fs26\page Also, it is the responsibility of the church leadership to \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\b\f0\fs26 determine how the finances are to be used. In this area, the \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 support of the pastor normally takes priority. How\super\fs39 ever, a \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 pastor should not maintain that all of the income o\super\fs39 f the \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0\fs26 church belongs to him, or \fs24 even \fs26 that all of \expndtw0\super\fs39 the tithes \fs36 are \fs39 his \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 for his own personal support. It \i ma\super\fs39 y \i0 be \fs36 necessary to employ \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0\fs24 all of the tithes for the sup\expndtw0\super\fs36 port \fs39 of the pastor in a small strug-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\b\f0\fs26 gling church, but as the congregat\expndtw0\super\fs39 ion increases in size, the \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 tithes should far exceed \super\fs39 the personal needs of the pastor. \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0\fs26 Therefore, it shou\expndtw0\super\fs39 ld be understood from the \fs36 beginning that \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs24 the tithes of th\super\fs36 e church come \fs39 under the supervision of the \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 church board a\super\fs39 nd are not the exclusive personal domain of \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-2\b\f0\fs26 the pastor.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi244\li29\ri437\sl303\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs26 There should b\super\fs39 e a \fs36 system \fs39 of \fs36 financial reports to the \fs39 con-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-4\b\f0\fs26 gregation. A clea\expndtw0\super\fs39 r understanding of how church finances are \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs26 handled pro\super\fs39 duces confidence in the membership. \fs36 When \fs39 the \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-4\b\f0\fs26 members \fs24 k\expndtw0\super\fs36 now \fs39 that the finances are being \i taken care \i0\fs36 of, \fs39 they \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\b\f0\fs26 are \b0\fs24 likely \b\fs26 to \expndtw0\super\fs39 cooperate with the church more \fs36 faithfully \fs39 with\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi1209\li38\ri466\sb10\sl208\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0\fs26 . However, it must \expndtw0\super\fs39 follow that the \fs36 church has \fs39 a \nosupersub\fs26 their tithes\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li38\sb16\sl292\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\b\f0\fs26 vision for all \expndtw0\super\fs39 of the aspects of needs where finances are in\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\sl447\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs26 The finances o\super\fs39 f \i the \i0 church come within the area of ad-\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li1574\sl299\slmult0\f1\par
\par

\pard\li1574\sb17\sl299\slmult0\tx5212\cf1\b\f0\fs26 64\b0\tab\b A \i Guide to Church Pkintin\par
 The English Words word church is one of the most abused and misused words in the twentieth- century vocabulary.Unfortunate -\par
        ly, like Caesar, it suffers more at the hands of its friends than its enemies.Let's look at the four common uses that many Chris-\par
            tians make of the word church, some within and some without its proper biblical context.\par
            Building.Many people refer to the ouilding in which the congregation assembles as the "church." A man may say to his wife, "I am going down to the church to pick up my hat, which I\par
            left there after the morning service, " fully knowing that no other person will likely be in the building at the time he arrives. \par
                Denomination.It is quite common to speak of a collec -\par
        tion of churches which have assembled themselves together in some kind of organization or association as "the Baptist church," "the Methodist church," or "the Presbyterian church." \par
                Universal church.The universal church refers to all mem -\par
        bers of the body of Christ in all places and all ages.Some theolo -\par
        gians have referred to this as the "church invisible," but in actu -\par
        ality the church has never been invisible.\par
            Local church.The local church is a given geographical representation of the universal church.This usage of the word is most in focus throughout the pages of this book.\par
            Of the four common usages of the word church men -\par
        tioned above, only two are biblical.The first two have grown up in the jargon of ecclesiastical years.It is nor necessarily a great error to use the word church in these ways, unless by so doing one forgets the emphasis of the New Testainent\f2\emdash that the church is always people.The last two uses, universal and local, are the only scriptural usages of the concept of church; we will examine these further below.\par
           \cf0\b0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10612\sb98\sl230\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\b\f0\fs20 THE MEANING OF TH\expndtw0\super\fs30 E \fs36 WORD \fs30 "CHURCH"\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9427\sl276\slmult1\fs24\par

\pard\li3244\sl264\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0 The English \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par
\par

\pard\fi220\li3244\ri2956\sb140\sl264\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0\fs16 TEAM LEADERSHIP \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0\fs16 IN CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1214\sl230\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li1425\sb221\sl230\slmult0\cf1\i\dn4\f0\fs20 The Greek Word\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi657\li1382\ri1199\sb134\sl244\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0\fs18 The Greek word used in the New Testament to designate \dn4 either universal church or local church is \i\fs20 ecclesia. \i0\fs18 To the Greeks the word indicated an assembly of free citizens; however, to the Jews it had more theocratic connotations. In the New Testament the word takes three basic uses:\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi748\li1300\ri1242\sb5\sl245\slmult0\qj\tx1377\tx1377\tx1363\tx1348\tx1348\tx1339\cf1\up0\f0\fs18 1. A \i\fs20 political assembly of free citizens. \i0\fs18 The word \i\fs20 ecclesia \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab appears in this context in Acts 19:32, 39, 41. The English word \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab used in the Authorized translation is \i\fs20 assembly, \i0\fs18 which is quite \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab proper in describing the situation. God had worked various mira-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab cles through Paul at Ephesus, and Demetrius, representative of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab the silversmiths in Ephesus, expressed their fear that their patron \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab deity was in jeopardy because of the increasing number of people \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 turning to the gospel. In the confusion that followed, mob vio-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 lence was averted by the speech of the town clerk. When the mob is in complete chaos (and when it is formally dismissed by the town clerk), it is referred to as an \i\fs20 ecclesia.\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi710\li1214\ri1338\sb24\sl245\slmult0\qj\tx1267\tx1257\tx1252\cf1\i\f0\fs20 2. Jewish assembly of the Old Testament. \i0\fs18 In his sermon \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab just before his martyrdom, Stephen speaks of Moses and "the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab church in the wilderness" (Acts 7:38 Kjv). The word \i\fs20 ecclesia \i0\fs18 in \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab this context obviously cannot be a reference to the New Testa-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 ment church but speaks in a general way of the congregation or \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 the gathering of Israelites in the wilderness under the leadership \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 of Moses.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi739\li1113\ri1381\sb30\sl250\slmult0\qj\tx1185\tx1171\tx1156\cf1\i\f0\fs20 3. The Christian church. \i0\fs18 Almost all other New Testament \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab passages deal with the Christian church in either its universal or \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab local form. Because of the extreme importance of this concept, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab one cannot properly perceive of the doctrine of the church with-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs18 out a thorough understanding of these two uses of the word \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs20 ecclesia. \i0\fs18  The  universal  church contains only true believers, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 whereas the local church may include those who profess Chris-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 tianity but who have not yet had an experience of regeneration.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10756\sl273\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par

\pard\fi67\li2232\ri4125\sb254\sl273\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs16 THE \fs14 CONTEXT \super\fs21 OF \cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs16 TEAM LEADER\super\fs24 SHIP\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li8567\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li159\sb234\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\i\f0\fs22 The Universal Church\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\par

\pard\fi647\li135\ri1998\sb116\sl249\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs18 The Old Testament \super\fs27 presented the church in typological \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 form. Sample types might \super\fs27 include Ruth, the Gentile bride and \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 Israel, God's remnant in the wor\super\fs27 ld.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi667\li111\ri2008\sb1\sl249\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs18 In the Gospels God's reve\super\fs27 lation of the church proceeds to \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 prophetic form as Jesus Him\super\fs27 self pronounces, "Upon this rock I \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 will build My church" (Matt. \expndtw1 16:18 \fs16 NASB). \fs18 The book o\super\fs27 f Acts \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 describes the history of the church \super\fs27 in as early days; the spread of \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 the gospel through the church, be\super\fs27 ginning at Jerusalem and con-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 tinuing today around the world, is a literal fulfi llment of Acts 1:8.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi667\li82\ri2037\sb43\sl251\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs18 It is not until we read the Epistles, however, t\super\fs27 hat we con-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 front any kind of formalized church doctrine, s\super\fs27 ince God's sover-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 eign plan largely confined such information to the w\super\fs27 ritings of the \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 apostle Paul. The crown of church doctrine comes in the epistle \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 to the church at Ephesus and its most glittering jewel, chapter \super\fs27 4, \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0\fs18 a passage which comes into focus frequently in any study of \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 Christian leadership.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi676\li43\ri2057\sl252\slmult0\qj\tx5641\tx117\cf1\f0\fs18 The  universal  church  includes  all  Christians (1 \tab Cor. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab 1:1-2), \fs18 only Christians (Eph. \expndtw2 5:23-27), and is represented by \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 those brought together through the Holy Spirit. The teaching on \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians 12 and Romans 12 offers clear evi-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0\fs18 dence of the nature of the church as organism. The universal \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw3\f0\fs18 church is, in the language of the apostle Paul, "the body of \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 Christ."\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li8563\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li39\sb113\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\i\f0\fs22 The Local Church\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\par

\pard\fi681\li10\ri2076\sb185\sl252\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\dn4\f0\fs18 God's pattern has always designed the local church to \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 manifest the universal church (Rom. 16:16), and Acts \expndtw2 2:41-47 \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 represents the local church at Jerusalem carrying out the purpos-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 es and program of the universal church. No evidence in the Word \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 of God suggests that Christ ever abandoned the program and for-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 mat of the local church as the basic foundation for all forms of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18 Christian mission in the world.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\up0\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\fi244\li3820\ri3374\sb203\sl292\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs18 TEAM LEADERSHIP \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0\fs18 IN CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1675\sl268\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi763\li1675\ri1396\sb127\sl268\slmult0\qj\cf1\i\f0 Membership. \i0\fs22 Membership in the local church seems to \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 have been taken for granted by New Testament believers. Various \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 passages seem to indicate that specific rolls were kept, but there is\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li12000\sl283\slmult0\fs24\page\par

\pard\fi67\li2145\ri2925\sb38\sl283\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 THE CONTEXT OF \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 TEAM LEADERSHIP\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1646\sl259\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li10\ri798\sb78\sl259\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 form to "sound words, those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and with the doctrine conforming to godliness" (1 Tim. 6:3 \fs16 NASB). \fs22 Of\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li10\sb15\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 course some would immediately point out that "words" here\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li1675\ri56\sl229\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 very little clear-cut teaching on the nature of those rolls 1:15; 2:41; 6:2-5; 1 Cor. 5:13; 1 Tim. 5:9).\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li10\sb1\sl243\slmult0\tx2189\cf1\expndtw-2\f0\page (Acts \expndtw0\tab\dn4 refers to the words of the living Son of God and not to the words\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li2160\sb27\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 written in the Bible. Nevertheless, our understanding of the\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\up0\fs12\par

\pard\fi835\li1598\ri1425\sl267\slmult0\qj\tx1656\tx1651\tx1646\tx1646\cf1\i\f0\fs24 Organization. \i0\fs22 Like the matter of membership, church \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab organization is not specifically outlined in the New Testament. \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab The Lord somewhat assumes it in Matthew 18 when He talks \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab about establishing the facts of a dispute through collective hear-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab ing by the church. As apostolic authority passed off the scene, \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 team leadership seems to have taken its place. In Acts 8, for example, Peter remonstrates with Simon the sorcerer on the basis of unilateral authority. Just a few years later Paul writes to the church at Corinth that they have the collective responsibility to judge wicked persons in their midst (1 Cor. 5:13).\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi835\li1521\ri1468\sl270\slmult0\qj\tx1579\cf1\f0 Another characteristic of organization in the early church \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab is that it arose largely in response to the needs and problems that \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the church encountered. The selection of the deacons in Acts 6 \dn4 provides the most obvious example of this. In a sense, the indige-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 nous principle of missions is a more refined development of \fs24 this earliest \fs22 principle of organization.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi854\li1444\ri1492\sb4\sl286\slmult0\qj\tx1497\cf1\i\up0\f0\fs24 Government. \i0\fs22 An important part of organization in the \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab local church is its government. Although evangelicals differ \cf0\f1\line\cf1\dn4\f0\fs24 regarding the significance \fs22 of such words as \i\fs24 episkopos \i0\fs22 (bishop or overseer) \fs24 and \i presbuteros \i0\fs22 (elder), several biblical principles of \fs24 church government are enunciated in \fs22 the New Testament. We will explore these issues more fully in chapte\super\fs33 rs 3 and 4.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2985\sl253\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li2985\sb170\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-8\f0\fs22 ASPECTS OF CHURCH GOVERNMENT\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\li1382\sl299\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li1382\sb39\sl299\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\i\f0\fs26 Church Governm\expndtw0\super\fs39 ent Should Be Biblical in Constitution\cf0\nosupersub\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi815\li1329\ri1535\sb101\sl321\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs24 Young Timothy rep\super\fs36 resents early church leadership, and to \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 him the apostl\super\fs36 e Paul writes that leaders should constantly con-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri779\sb9\sl262\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\page words of Christ exclusively depends upon God's inspired record of those words. One of the great errors of liberal theology \dn4 through the years has been a fabricated separation of the written Word from the incarnate Word.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li9811\sl276\slmult1\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li19\sb113\sl276\slmult1\cf1\expndtw-4\i\f0 Church Government Should Be Participatory in \i0\fs22 Form\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi681\li10\ri664\sb138\sl270\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 The existence of numerous evangelical denominations with varying attitudes regarding church government demon-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 strates that the Scriptures do not detail the issue. Some interpret the New Testament to teach congregational government, \super\fs33 others \nosupersub\fs22 favor a presbyterian form, and still others the more hier\super\fs33 archical \nosupersub\fs22 Episcopalian structure. Quite obviously, each group will \super\fs33 defend \nosupersub\fs22 its preference from Scripture and history. The on \expndtw1 ly point I wish to \expndtw0 make here, therefore, is the renewed emphas is on the church as people. Evidence throughout the book of A\super\fs33 cts strongly suggests \nosupersub\fs22 that whatever emphasis we may place on \super\fs33 the role of elders, the \nosupersub\fs22 New Testament will never let us forget \super\fs33 the participatory role of \nosupersub\fs22 people in team leadership of the chur\super\fs33 ch. That omission came \nosupersub\fs22 about by later corruption of med\super\fs33 ieval forms.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9835\sl305\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi9\li33\ri597\sb78\sl305\slmult0\tx759\cf1\expndtw-6\i\f0\fs26 Church \fs24 Government Shoul\expndtw0\super\fs36 d Be Representative in Function \cf0\nosupersub\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\tab How easy it could have bee\super\fs33 n in Acts 6 for the apostles \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 themselves to select \super\fs33 those seven men whom they desired to serve \nosupersub\fs22 in the "daily ministratio\super\fs33 n" \nosupersub\fs22 (Kjv). Nevertheless, they carefully restrained themselves and \super\fs33 asked the entire group to make the \nosupersub\dn4\fs22 selection. The statem\super\fs33 ent of verse \nosupersub\fs22 5 is quite clear: "The w\super\fs33 hole\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li48\sb88\sl253\slmult0\tx1287\cf1\up0\f0 multitude \tab\expndtw3\dn4 . chose" \expndtw0\fs18 (KJV). \cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li12854\sl207\slmult0\up0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li3062\sb67\sl207\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs18 21\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li4200\sl288\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi235\li3964\ri3418\sb73\sl288\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs18 TEAM LEADERSHIP \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\i\f0\fs18 IN \i0 CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1871\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li1915\sb237\sl253\slmult0\cf1\i\f0\fs22 Church Government Should Be Spiritual in Function\cf0\i0\f1\par

\pard\fi748\li1871\ri1497\sb159\sl254\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 The biblical, participatory, and spiritual aspects of church \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 administration find their clearest practical application in the \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 selection of the first missionaries. It seems clear in Acts 13 that \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the process of selecting and sending those missionaries depended \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 solely upon the sovereignty of the Holy Spirit through prayer. \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 The Holy Spirit selected the missionaries, and the Holy Spirit sent \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 them to a particular place. The local church served as an interme-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 diary agency, a physical representation of the hand of God in His \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 world.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li3595\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li3595\sb205\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-8\f0\fs22 THE PURPOSE OF THE CHURCH\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi782\li1800\ri1540\sb156\sl264\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Without a clear-cut set of objectives, any organization suffers. The church has been less than outstanding in its clarifica-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 tion of mission in the late twentieth century. Not all church lead-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ers have been silent, however, and at least one leading educator has specified in print an attempt to answer the question, "What is the church for?"\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li1699\sl236\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi48\li2467\ri1554\sb32\sl236\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 The answer is no mystery. Scripture makes it plain that the \expndtw1 church is to be a worshipping body, committed to "show forth \expndtw0 the \fs20 praises \fs22 of him who has called (it) out of darkness into his marvelous light"; that it is to proclaim the saving gospel of Jesus Christ to all the world; and that it is to obey all the teach-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw-1\dn4\f0 ings of Jesus Christ, its great head and Lord.2\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi72\li1636\ri1578\sb254\sl282\slmult0\qj\tx1699\tx1684\cf1\f0 For thirty years Dr. Frank E. Gaeb\super\fs33 elein gave careful thought to \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24\tab the issues \fs22 of Christian ed\super\fs33 ucation and philosophy. Unfortunately, \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\tab however, no one individu\super\fs33 al can speak for all local churches. Each \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 body of believers m\super\fs33 ust reassess the purpose of its own existence \nosupersub\fs24 and clarify \fs22 its relat\super\fs33 ionship to the universal church. The New Tes-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 tament seems to \super\fs33 set \fs36 forth four basic objectives for the church, \expndtw1\nosupersub\fs24 though church leade\expndtw0\super\fs36 rs may verbalize them differently.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4776\sl207\slmult0\up0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li4776\sb62\sl207\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs18 24\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li12095\sl273\slmult0\fs24\page\par

\pard\fi62\li2126\ri2848\sb220\sl273\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs18 'DIE \b CONTEXT OF \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-5\b\f0\fs18 TEAM LEADERSHIP\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9907\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li14\sb211\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\i\f0\fs22 The Church Structures a Climate for Worship\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\par

\pard\fi681\li10\ri697\sb137\sl259\slmult0\qj\cf1\dn4\f0 A host of passages invites our attention to the subject of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the church promoting worship. It may be beneficial, however, to \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 confine our observation to the epistle of Ephesians. In chapter 1 \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 Paul immediately declares that the purpose of God's predestina-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 tion and adoption is that His people might be "to the praise of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0 the glory of His grace" (NASB). Lest his readers miss the empha-\cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 sis, the apostle repeats the worship theme in verses 12 and \expndtw-7 14. \cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 The great benediction of chapter 3 also focuses on the concept of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 worship as Paul writes, "To him be glory in the church and in \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0 Christ Jesus throughout all generations, for ever and ever! Amen" \cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0 (Eph. 3:21).\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi676\li10\ri678\sl262\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0 To say that the church purposes to worship does not guar-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 antee that the church fully accomplishes this objective. Providing \expndtw3 opportunities for believers to pray, sing, hear Scripture, read pub-\cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 licly, or engage in any other kind of physical or verbal activity is just the beginning. As a matter of fact, worship is not primarily an \i activity \i0 but rather an \i attitude \i0 of heart and mind which com-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 prehends God and rejoices in the realization.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li9921\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li14\sb155\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\i\f0\fs22 The Church Provides the Setting for Fellowship\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\par

\pard\fi672\li14\ri587\sb131\sl270\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 A little phrase in Ephesians \dn4 3:18 is often overlooked: \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 "with all the saints." These words speak volumes regarding the \cf0\f1\line\cf1\up4\f0 nature of the church. Isolationism has never been God's way, and \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 biblical separation today should be interpreted neither as \i isola-\cf0\i0\f1\line\cf1\i\f0 tion \i0 from others nor as \i insulation \i0 from the very world that needs \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the witness of the church. The apostle John writes of fellowship \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 in his first epistle: "What we have seen and heard we proclaim to \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 you also, so that you too may have fellowship with us; and \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 indeed our fellowship is with the Father, and with His Son Jesus \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 Christ" (1 John 1:3 \fs18 NASB). \fs22 In other words, horizontal fellowship \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 among God's people depends upon vertical fellows\super\fs33 hip between \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 individual Christians and their Lord. The world must s\super\fs33 ee Chris-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li12878\sl207\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li2971\sb42\sl207\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\f0\fs18 25\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3907\sl287\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi235\li3672\ri3450\sb2\sl287\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\b\f0\fs18 TEAM LEADERSHIP \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\b\f0\fs18 IN CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1612\sl220\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li1612\ri1512\sb187\sl220\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 tians living together in harmonious love demonstrative of the Christ whom they serve (John \fs20 13:35).\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1459\sl276\slmult1\fs24\par

\pard\li1617\sb135\sl276\slmult1\cf1\expndtw-2\i\f0 The Church Develops a Strategy for Evangelism\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi748\li1588\ri1521\sb147\sl263\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Biblically, evangelism is the clear proclamation- of the gospel of Jesus Christ, leaving the results entirely up to the sover-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 eignty of the Holy Spirit. Some churches have viewed evangelism as the \i\fs24 only \i0\fs22 task of the church and have subordinated all other purposes to it. Unfortunately, such churches fill their rolls with baby Christians who, instead of growing week by week on the milk, bread, and meat of the Word, receive only a constant bar-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 rage of the elementary principles of the gospel.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi816\li1507\ri1530\sb5\sl270\slmult0\qj\tx1574\tx1564\tx1564\tx1560\cf1\dn4\f0 Such excesses, however, should not cloud the fact that \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab evangelism is a legitimate task of the church. Surely some have a \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab special gift of evangelism, but their ministry does not excuse the \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab responsibility of every Christian to communicate the gospel. Paul \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 speaks for the church in Ephesians 3:8 when he says of himself, \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab "This grace was given me: to preach to the Gentiles the unsearch-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\fs24 able riches \fs22 of Christ." In Acts 8:4, when the apostles remained at \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 Jerusalem for some reason during a mass persecution, Luke \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 records that the church "went about preaching the word" \fs18 (NASB).\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi801\li1459\ri1549\sl279\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0 Some would prefer to describe this concept of the church's \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 purpose as "service," a more inclusive word. God's people render \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 varied kinds of service through the church, and not all of them \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 have to do directly with evangelism. Perhaps \super\fs33 we can say that the \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\dn4\f0 church both \i\fs24 has \i0\fs22 a mission \super\fs33 in the world and \i\fs36 is \i0\fs33 a mission in the \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 world.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li1440\sl320\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\fi48\li1391\ri1555\sb71\sl320\slmult0\tx2174\cf1\expndtw2\i\f0 The Church Maintains \expndtw0\super\fs36 a Ministry of Education \cf0\nosupersub\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\tab Some would say th\super\fs33 at the church has a responsibility \fs36 for \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 instruction or edif\super\fs36 ication. The Great Commission is a teaching \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24 commission (M\super\fs36 att. \fs30 28:19\fs33 -\fs30 20; \fs33 Acts 2:42). James Deforest Murch, \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 in a classic boo\super\fs33 k title, once \fs36 warned us to "Teach or Perish." It\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4555\sb182\sl207\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs18 26\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11865\sl278\slmult0\fs24\page\par

\pard\fi62\li2136\ri3064\sb139\sl278\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-3\b\f0\fs18 THE CONTEXT OF \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-4\b\f0\fs18 TEAM LEADERSHIP\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9667\sl255\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li10\ri899\sb86\sl255\slmult0\qj\cf1\dn4\f0\fs22 seems inappropriate to move on to matters of team leadership \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 before examining that golden deposit of truth, Ephesians \fs20 4:11-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 16, \fs22 which speaks so clearly regarding the church's educational \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 task. Note carefully the \i New International Version \i0 translation of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0 the passage:\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\li9676\sl223\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li677\ri899\sb54\sl223\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 It \fs20 was he who gave some to be apostles, some to be prophets, some to be evangelists, and some to be pastors and teachers, to prepare God's people for works of service, so that the body of Christ may be built up until we all reach unity in the faith and in the knowledge of the Son of God and become mature, attain-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 ing to the whole measure of the fullness of Christ.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi264\li681\ri880\sl224\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs20 Then we will no longer be infants, tossed back and forth by \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 the waves, and blown here and there by every wind of teaching \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 and by the cunning and craftiness of men in their deceitful \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 scheming. Instead, speaking the truth in love, we will in all \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 things grow up into him who is the Head, that is, Christ. From \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 him the whole body, joined and held together by every support-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\dn4\f0\fs20 ing ligament, grows and builds itself up in love, as each part \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 does its work.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9676\sl268\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\fi676\li10\ri861\sb3\sl268\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 In this passage several facts form a biblical basis for the church's ministry:\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li710\ri832\sb260\sl268\slmult0\qj\tx966\cf1\f0 1. The church's ministry is carried on by those first gifted \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab by the Holy Spirit to lead and then given to the church\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li931\sb8\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 for that purpose (v. 11).\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li696\ri807\sl271\slmult0\qj\tx966\cf1\f0 2. A major purpose of the church's ministry is to help \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab God's people mature so that they can minister. Matura-\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li931\sb13\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 tion is edification, a "building up" process (v. 12).\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li705\sb20\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 3. Properly carried out, the church's ministry will result in\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi4\li931\ri774\sl271\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 a harmonious relationship among believers. The process of growing into this maturity and harmony is one of \expndtw3 becoming more like Jesus Christ (v. 13).\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\li701\ri764\sl276\slmult1\qj\tx971\cf1\f0 4. The church's ministry is highly theological, producing \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab discerning students of truth who are able\f2\emdash\f0 because of\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li12657\sl207\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li2990\sb129\sl207\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs18 27\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li3916\sl207\slmult0\f1\par

\pard\li3916\sb202\sl207\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs18 TEAM LEADERSHIP\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3686\sb93\sl207\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs18 IN CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2616\sl198\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li2616\ri8739\sb27\sl198\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 their understanding of truth\f2\emdash\f0 to detect and avoid error \fs20 (v. \fs22 14).\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li2380\ri2524\sb110\sl259\slmult0\qj\tx2630\cf1\f0\fs22 5. A properly functioning church will effectively combine \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab truth and love without sacrificing either on the altar of\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li2644\ri2539\sl255\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 the other. A mature Christian (v. 15) will be like his Lord, "full of grace and truth" (John 1:14).\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li1680\sl264\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi724\li1680\ri2523\sb15\sl264\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 To state it simply and yet biblically, \i the overwhelming and all-encompassing objective of the church is total Christian matu-\cf0\i0\f1\line\cf1\i\f0 rity for all its members. \i0 Total Christian maturity includes an indi-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 vidual and collective life of biblical worship, biblical fellowship, and biblical evangelism, all of which are stimulated by and pro-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 duced through properly functioning team leadership.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li3816\sl207\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li3816\sb91\sl207\slmult0\cf1\expndtw2\f0\fs18 FOR FURTHER READING\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1728\ri2524\sb24\sl230\slmult0\qj\tx2419\cf1\f0\fs20 Colson, Charles. \i Kingdoms in Conflict. \i0 Grand Rapids: William Mor-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab row/Zondervan, 1987.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi4\li1723\ri2519\sb12\sl292\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs20 Koivsto, Rex A. One \i\fs22 Lord, One Faith. \i0 Wheaton, \fs20 Ill.: Victor, 1993. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 MacArthur, John, Jr. \i The Church, the Body of Christ. \i0 Grand Rapids:\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1488\sb33\sl736\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs64\page -2-\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb1\sl704\slmult0\cf1\ul\f0\fs64 UNITY AND COMMUNITY\cf0\ulnone\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li960\sb2\sl705\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs64 IN THE BODY\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1723\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li245\sb165\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs22 hat is the greatest problem the church faces today?\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li2414\sb1\sl196\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs20 Zondervan, 1973.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb6\sl220\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs64 W\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb6\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0\page Traditionally, it has been a threat to orthodox the-\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li1723\ri1506\sb25\sl220\slmult0\qj\tx2428\cf1\f0\fs20 Saucy, Robert L. \i The Church in God's Program. \i0 Chicago: Moody, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab 1972.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1723\ri1501\sb92\sl220\slmult0\qj\tx2414\cf1\f0\fs20 Snyder, Howard A. \i\fs22 The Community of the King. \i0\fs20 D\super\fs30 owners Grove, Ill.: \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab InterVarsity, 1977.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1723\sb55\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 Stedman, Ray C. \i Body Life. \i0 Rev. ed. \fs20 Glendale, \fs22 Calif.: Regal, 1977.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li1905\sl184\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li4607\sb182\sl184\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs16 NOTES\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1905\ri1487\sb123\sl191\slmult0\qj\tx2145\cf1\f0\fs16 1. George B. Weber, "G\super\fs24 rowing Tomorrow's Leaders" in \i The Leader of the Future, \cf0\nosupersub\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs16\tab ed. Frances Hesselb\super\fs24 ein, Marshall Goldsmith, and Richard Beckhard (San Fran-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2145\sb17\sl184\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs16 cisco: Jossey\f2\bullet\f0 Bass, 1 996), 309.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1886\sl184\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li1886\sb35\sl184\slmult0\cf1\dn4\f0\fs16 2.  Frank E. Gae\super\fs24 belein, \i A Varied Harvest \i0 (Grand Rapids: Eerdmans, 1967), 160.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4800\sl230\slmult0\up0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li4800\sb212\sl230\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-7\b\f0\fs20 28\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri827\sb7\sl265\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\page ology by militant liberalism. Certainly that threat is always pres-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw2\dn4\f0 ent, but in these declining years of the twentieth century evangeli-\cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 cal churches seem to be much more troubled by the immature \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 behavior of Christians \i within \i0 their ranks than they are by the \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 heresy from \i without. \i0 Issues of ecclesiology have formed the bat-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 tleground of recent decades, and a book attempting to describe \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 biblical ways God's people work together in team leadership \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 should emphasize issues of unity and community within the body \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw3\f0 of Christ.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi667\li29\ri798\sl266\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0 We have already seen that the "universal church" refers to \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the spiritual unity of the redeemed in all ages and places. It \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 includes believing Jews or Gentiles, women and men, people of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 all colors, those in heaven and on earth, and stretches historically \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 from the origin of the church at Pentecost to the final day when \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 we shall be in heaven with the Lord. The focal point of that unity,\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li12700\sl184\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2966\sb107\sl184\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs16 29\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3067\sl302\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi240\li3067\ri3436\sb18\sl302\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-7\b\f0\fs20 TEAM LEADERSHIP \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-7\b\f0\fs20 IN CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li950\sl263\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi4\li950\ri1429\sb112\sl263\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 as Paul clearly declares in Ephesians 1, is a common redemption through the Atonement of Calvary and a corporate demonstra-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 tion of the grace and glory of Jesus Christ.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li868\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2726\sb166\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-8\f0\fs22 UNDERSTANDING THE CHURCH\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi791\li911\ri1424\sb142\sl274\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 In recent years defining and describing a philosophy of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ministry has created much confusion and no little controversy. \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 Yet as we study the New Testament, we seem to find at least a \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 minimal boundary of inclusion/exclusion to help us understand \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the local church. Writing from the context of congregational \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 polity, I would like to suggest that the local church is \i\fs24 a body of \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs24 confessed believers joining together for worship, fellowship, \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs24 instruction, and evangelism; led in its efforts by biblical officers \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs24 (elders and deacons); and including, as part of its life and min-\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs24 istry, observance of the ordinances, discipline, and mutual edifi-\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs24 cation.\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi792\li868\ri1477\sl281\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Theologian Robert Culver enumerates six characteristics \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 of a local church: spiritual vitality, doctrinal instruction, fellow-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\dn4\f0 ship, observance of the Lord's Supper, prayer, and Chri\super\fs33 stian testi-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 mony) The popular apologist Francis Schaeffer \super\fs33 indicated eight \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 ingredients that must be a part of "the pol\super\fs33 ity of the church as a \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 church":\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li1641\sl253\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li1641\sb37\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs22 I. Local congregations ma\super\fs33 de up of Christians\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1608\sb21\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 2. Special meetings on the \super\fs33 first day of the week\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1608\sb30\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 3. Church officers (e\super\fs33 lders) who have responsibility for the\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1852\sb6\sl276\slmult1\cf1\expndtw3\f0\fs24 local churches\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1583\ri1496\sl282\slmult0\qj\tx1843\cf1\f0\fs20 4. \fs22 Deacons responsi\super\fs33 ble for the community of the \fs36 church \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs24\tab in the area of mater\super\fs36 ial things\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1574\sb20\sl276\slmult1\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs24 5. A serious vie\expndtw0\super\fs36 w of discipline\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1569\sb8\sl276\slmult1\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs24 6. Specific qualifications for elders an\expndtw0\super\fs36 d deacons\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1564\sb7\sl276\slmult1\cf1\expndtw2\f0\fs24 7. A place for fo\expndtw0\super\fs36 rm on a wider basis than the local church\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11097\sl278\slmult0\fs24\page\par

\pard\li1997\ri3242\sb220\sl278\slmult0\qj\tx2570\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 UNITY AND COMMUNITY \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab\expndtw-8\b IN TIIE BODY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9148\sl259\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi724\li15\ri1321\sb108\sl259\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 I could fill hundreds of additional pages with various \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 other views as well as biblical exposition of the nature of the uni-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 versal and local church, but that is nor the primary purpose of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 this volume. My concern is that readers recognize the validity \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0 and essentiality of the local church \i\fs24 as a visible, contemporaneous \cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\i\f0\fs24 demonstration of the universal church and the primary impor-\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs24 tance that unity and community be demonstrated in its interper-\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-3\i\f0\fs24 sonal relations.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi705\li10\ri1365\sb34\sl264\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 One theological concept closely aligned here is the priest-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\dn4\f0 hood of believers. Actually only five passages in two books of the New Testament refer directly to the priesthood of believers; they are few enough to be reproduced here.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li9753\sl225\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\fi9\li672\ri1385\sb44\sl225\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs20 You also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. (1 Peter 2:5)\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9753\sl227\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi4\li663\ri1379\sb3\sl227\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs20 But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God, that you may declare the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his wonderful light. (1 Peter 2:9)\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9753\sl230\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi9\li644\ri1389\sb2\sl230\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs20 To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his \dn4 blood, and has made us to be a kingdom and priests to serve his God and Father\f2\emdash\f0 to him be glory and power for ever and ever! Amen. (Revelation 1:5b-6)\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi9\li629\ri1375\sb229\sl233\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0\fs20 You are worthy to take the scroll and to open its seals, because you were slain, and with your blood you purchased men for God from every tribe and language and people and nation. You have made them to be \fs22 a \fs20 kingdom and priests to serve our God, and they will reign on the earth. (Revelation 5:9-10)\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi9\li615\ri1384\sb224\sl238\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs20 Blessed and holy are those who have part in the first resurrec-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 tion. The second death has no power over them, but they will be priests of God and of Christ and will reign with him for \fs22 a thousand \fs20 years. (Revelation 20:6)\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li12014\sb85\sl230\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-7\f0\fs20 31\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl204\slmult0\cf1\expndtw3\f0\fs20 30\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
 8. The observance of two sacraments\f3\emdash baptism and the \par
            Lord's Supper2\f1\par

\pard\li3576\sl287\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\fi230\li3576\ri3273\sb17\sl287\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs18 TEAM LEADERSHIP \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-1\b\f0\fs18 IN CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1617\sl266\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi696\li1617\ri1319\sb84\sl266\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 One writer draws from these Scriptures five principles that speak to the relationship of believers in community as they seek to worship and serve God together:\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li1689\sl235\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2351\ri1334\sb29\sl235\slmult0\qj\tx2563\cf1\f0\fs18 1. \fs20 The priesthood of the believer must be held in healthy ten-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab sion with other basic concepts; it is not an absolute.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2347\sl225\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs20 2. The believer can delegate some of the authority of his life\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2572\sb1\sl225\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs20 and ministry to other believers.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2361\ri1334\sb1\sl230\slmult0\qj\tx2582\cf1\f0\fs20 3. The priesthood of the believer is conditioned by the gifts and \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab\expndtw2\dn4 roles in the life of the fellowship.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2356\ri1334\sb6\sl225\slmult0\qj\tx2582\cf1\b\up0\f0\fs20 4. \b0 The priesthood of the believer implies shared responsibility \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab and ministry as well as shared authority.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2371\ri1338\sb1\sl225\slmult0\qj\tx2596\cf1\f0\fs20 S. The priesthood of the believer is the basis for decision mak-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab\expndtw1 ing in the church.3\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi686\li1689\ri1319\sb118\sl264\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs20 Team leadership, commitment \fs22 to shared responsibility and authority, depends on a proper understanding of what it means to be the body of Christ. It emphasizes again the truth of being "laborers together," not only with God but also with each other, in carrying out the tasks of the church and establishing its witness in the world (Rom. 12:5).\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li3350\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li3350\sb131\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs22 PAUL'S CONCEPT OF THE BODY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\par

\pard\fi700\li1684\ri1339\sb151\sl264\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Perhaps no visual idea of the church receives more atten-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 tion today than the image of the \fs20 body \fs22 described by Paul in 1 Co-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 rinthians 12. On every hand we hear about "body life," "body truth," and the exercise of spiritual gifts within the body. This healthy emphasis will help us look again at corporate notions that the \fs20 early church \fs22 had of itself and at the \fs20 cardinal \fs22 principles that governed \fs20 its \fs22 life and ministry in the first century.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi700\li1680\ri1328\sl264\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Paul probably wrote the first Corinthian epistle from \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0 Ephesus about \b A.D. \expndtw0\b0 57. A metropolis of the Roman province of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 Achaia, Corinth was a great commercial center in the Mediter-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ranean world. Paul had visited the city twice and found it living \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 up to its reputation as a center of \super\fs33 sin and depravity. \nosupersub\fs22 Corin\super\fs33 th pre-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 sented an enormous challenge to the gospe l. One could reason-\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li4632\sl207\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li4632\sb58\sl207\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs18 32\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11448\sl283\slmult0\fs24\page\par

\pard\li2093\ri2819\sb278\sl283\slmult0\qj\tx2670\cf1\b\f0\fs18 UNITY AND COMMUNITY \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab\expndtw-2\b IN THE BODY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9412\sl270\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi9\li110\ri827\sb91\sl270\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 ably expect the principles of Christian faith to operate at Jerusa-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 lem, where the members of the early church had been schooled for years in Old Testament truth. To motivate that kind of behav-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ior in pagan Corinth, however, presented unique challenges.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi739\li57\ri851\sb1\sl268\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Deplorable factions had split the Corinthian church into \cf0\f1\line\cf1\dn4\f0 hostile fragments. Some believers claimed to follow Paul, others \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 Apollos, others Peter, and some claimed such self-righteous piety \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 that they wished to bypass all contemporary leaders and refer \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 themselves directly back to Christ. Paul addresses a number of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the problems resulting from the schism that had drained both \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 unity and community at Corinth. In chapter 12 he makes an \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 explanation of the nature and use of spiritual gifts. Interestingly, \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 however, the bulk of the chapter does not deal with the specifica-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 tion of gifts, but rather with the kind of people who \fs20 will \fs22 be min-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 istering them. The \fs20 words \fs22 of the old hymn "Onward, Christian \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 Soldiers" well depict the intent of 1 Corinthians 12. They remind \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the church, "We are not divided; all one body we, One in hope \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 and doctrine, One in charity."\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li9407\sl276\slmult1\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li52\sb108\sl276\slmult1\cf1\expndtw-5\i\f0 The Body Metaphor\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi686\li33\ri971\sb163\sl268\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Typically, Paul used common illustrations to explain diffi-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 cult spiritual truths. First Corinthians 12 demonstrates in detail \cf0\f1\line\cf1\dn4\f0 how the unity of a \i\fs24 physical \i0\fs22 body offers a model for the kind of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 unity that ought to radiate from Christ's \i\fs24 spiritual \i0\fs22 body. In verse\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi38\li10\ri986\sb11\sl257\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 13 the apostle points out that the baptismal ministry of the Holy Spirit places people into the universal body of Christ, the church. Most evangelical scholars agree that the treatment of baptism here is less likely a reference to the ritual act of water baptism than to the spiritual act of implantation into the body of believ-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ers. We should always remember that symbolical acts exist only to emphasize spiritual reality.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi681\li10\ri1024\sb65\sl268\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0 The essence of this chapter is the old philosophical princi-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ple that "the whole is greater than the sum of its parts." Diversity \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 of parts characterizes the operating body, but unity and commu-\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl180\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\f0\fs18 11\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par

\pard\li4036\sl292\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi220\li3816\ri3353\sb170\sl292\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 TEAM LEADERSHIP \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 IN CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1800\sl265\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li1800\ri1371\sb95\sl265\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 nity of the members allow the body to function properly. Paul draws the argument to ridiculous extremes in order to make his point: "If the whole body were an eye, where would the sense of hearing be? If the whole body were an ear, where would the sense of smell be?" (v. 17). What kind of a functioning organism would\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li1852\ri1357\sl265\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 one's body be were it composed of nothing but one giant eye? Or \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 perhaps one giant ear and no nose? Apparently autocratic leaders \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 already were manifesting their power in the early church. People \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 whose strong personalities overwhelm the body of Christ and \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 dominate its life and ministry have plagued the church from the\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li1900\ri1352\sl264\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 first century. Such overpowering control by any one member, or by a select inside group, shows an inaccurate concept of the church and a failure to understand team leadership.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi715\li1920\ri1299\sl268\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 After he focuses our attention on the functions of the physical body, Paul nails down the argument he really intends to make in this section of the epistle: God \i has a place for everyone in the church, and everyone's place is important. \i0 Remember the context of this passage\f2\emdash\f0 the use of spiritual gifts. Every Christian has a spiritual gift, and some may have more than one. And just \dn4 as all members have spiritual gifts, all members have distinct functions. God gifts people for carrying on the work of the church and then places them in the body for a particular purpo\super\fs33 se \nosupersub\fs22 of ministry. Not only that, but He does it in His own di\super\fs33 vine sov-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 ereignty, just as He arranged the org\super\fs33 ans of the physical body to \nosupersub\fs22 create the best possible work ing relationship! Only when all members of the physical body d\super\fs33 o their tasks does that body func-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 tion properly. The same is true \super\fs33 of the church.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1972\sl276\slmult1\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li1972\sb122\sl276\slmult1\cf1\expndtw-2\i\f0 The Broken Body\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi724\li1968\ri1275\sb115\sl274\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Ministry unity and \super\fs33 community break down when some \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\dn4\f0 fail to exercise the ir proper gifts and roles in \super\fs33 the body, or when \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 certain members \super\fs33 are considered to be weaker or stronger, more \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 necessary or less n\super\fs33 ecessary. Mutual care in the body can eliminate \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 discord, but a \super\fs33 ruptured organ can destroy the entire system. An\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5025\sb137\sl230\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-7\b\up0\f0\fs20 34\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11582\sl278\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par

\pard\li1887\ri2786\sb14\sl278\slmult0\qj\tx2455\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 UNITY AND COMMUNITY \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab\expndtw-8\b IN THE BODY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9695\sl254\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li10\ri890\sb107\sl254\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 oversized gland creates abnormality, causing the entire organism \expndtw2 (or organization) to suffer desperately.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi672\li10\ri890\sb16\sl260\slmult0\qj\cf1\dn4\f0 In verse 26, Paul points out that the unity of the body is most apparent during a time of pain or suffering. A broken leg sends splinters of pain throughout the entire system. Even the common cold can simultaneously produce a runny nose, red and tired eyes, an earache, an aching head, a sore throat, an upset stomach, and general discomfort throughout the entire body. In the same way, all members of the spiritual body share the suffer-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ing and unhappiness of each other. Since a unified body enjoys community, when one of its members feels well or receives some particular benefits, the entire body rejoices. As Paul wrote in another letter, "Rejoice with those who rejoice, and weep with those who weep" \fs20 (Rom. 12:15 \fs16 NASB).\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li677\sb5\sl253\slmult0\cf1\up0\f0 The crucial application comes in 1 Corinthians \fs20 12:27: \cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi9\li20\ri894\sb12\sl259\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 "Now you are Christ's body, and individually members of it" \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw3\f0 (NABS). Note the emphasis on the word you. Even this fractured \cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 Corinthian church, with all its doctrinal confusion and personal \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 bickering, could demonstrate the body of Christ to the world! \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 The "bookends" of this passage (vv. 12-27) fit classic Pauline \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 logic: "For even as the body is one" \expndtw2 (v. 12 \fs20 NASB) \fs22 and "Now you \cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 are Christ's body" \expndtw-9 (v. \expndtw0\fs20 27 NASB). \fs22 Alan Redpath suggests that the \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 kind of unity Paul describes in this chapter "is only possible as \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 we recognize that within the church we have fellowship in our \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw3\f0 diversity, as we learn to love and to care for our brethren who are \cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 different, always recognizing the utter futility of identity."\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi672\li34\ri889\sb9\sl255\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Francis Schaeffer wrote often about community. He emphasized that horizontal relationship can only follow vertical relationship because a Christian community can only be made up \expndtw2 of individual Christians.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\li10396\sl224\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li701\ri890\sb37\sl224\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs20 Therefore, as we meet in our groups, we know who we are. We \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 are not like those who march in our streets and do not know \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 who they are\f2\emdash\f0 who call for community but have no basis for \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 community beyond biological continuity. Now we are ready to \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20 begin real personal living, to practice the orthodoxy of commu-\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li12643\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2948\sb28\sl161\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs12 I \fs14 C\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li4367\sl288\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\fi225\li4142\ri3249\sb6\sl288\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 TEAM LEADERSHIP \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 IN CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2241\sl220\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2865\ri1320\sb33\sl220\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs20 nity corporately as a community. Real personal Christian living individually and corporately as a community that rests upon the individual's and the community's personal relationship with a personal God gives us the possibility of Christian community before the eye of an observing worlds\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2241\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2918\sb176\sl253\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-8\f0\fs22 THE IMPLEMENTATION OF UNITY AND COMMUNITY\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi700\li2241\ri1266\sb146\sl260\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs18 It \fs22 is tempting to spend the rest of the chapter continuing \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the discussion of the biblical nature of the "communited" \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 church. But this book deals with team leadership. Up to this \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 point, I have tried to draw some biblical implications regarding \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the relationships we must maintain if we expect leadership teams \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 to work together effectively in the body of believers, whether that \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 be in the local church or in other Christian organizations. Now I \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 will deal briefly with four concepts that help form a pattern of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ministry based, if not on specific verses of 1 Corinthians 12, at \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 least upon the general New Testament concept of the church as a\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li2289\sb5\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 unified body.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li2289\sl253\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2289\sb157\sl253\slmult0\cf1\b\i\f0\fs22 A \b0 People-Centered Ministry\cf0\i0\f1\par

\pard\fi705\li2299\ri1237\sb136\sl265\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 In one sense we could say that the church should be the \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 most person-centered organization in the world. But the church \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 must be God-centered before it can be person-centered. Finding \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the proper balance between these two very important ingredients \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 of biblical life has proven too great a responsibility for some \super\fs33 con-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 gregations. They have slipped from the path e ither to the left (an \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 overemphasis on human relati\super\fs33 onships to the neglect of God's sov-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\dn4\f0 ereignty) or to the right \super\fs33 (a greater concern for "souls". than for \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 people).\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi715\li2313\ri1219\sl267\slmult0\qj\cf1\i\up0\f0 Christian love always finds \super\fs33 its outworking within the con-\cf0\nosupersub\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0 text of relationships. \super\i0\fs33 Yet precisely at this point many Christian \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\dn4\f0 leaders go sour. Ou\super\fs33 r problems testify not so much to our inability \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 to perform public ly as to our inability to get along wi\super\fs33 th people in \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 private, interper\super\fs33 sonal relations. The church is and always has\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5323\sb143\sl230\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-7\b\up0\f0\fs20 16\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11745\sl278\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par

\pard\li1862\ri2652\sb134\sl278\slmult0\qj\tx2415\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 UNITY AND COMMUNITY \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab\expndtw-8\b IN THE BODY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9883\sl260\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li10\ri769\sb77\sl260\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs22 been people, and service in it at any given time requires necessary relationship with those people. Adequate team leadership requires \expndtw2\dn4 awareness of and sensitivity to human need all around us, as well \expndtw0 as an appreciation of how we can meet that need through the \expndtw3 supernatural dynamics of God's truth and Spirit.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi662\li10\ri775\sb2\sl258\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0 Consider, for example, a pastor who finds his self-satis-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 faction and fulfillment amid the books in his study, where he \dn4 spends all his time. Although his theology may be orthodox and his sermons scholarly, a dimension of reality could be missing from his ministry. His lifeline to meaningful ministry demands constant contact with people, so that he can learn to relate God's \expndtw1 truth to real problems in real lives.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi662\li14\ri779\sb2\sl257\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Our Lord's ministry always centered on people; He \expndtw2 focused on meeting their spiritual and eternal needs. But this pri-\cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ority did not keep Him from showing interest in temporal and \expndtw2 physical needs as well. If our various "body parts" properly func-\cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 tion together, it will be because we have discovered and imple-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0 mented a new-covenant view of interpersonal relations.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\li9912\sl253\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li33\sb128\sl253\slmult0\cf1\i\f0\fs22 The Gift of Leading\cf0\i0\f1\par

\pard\fi657\li29\ri750\sb142\sl257\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 In conjunction with the \fs20 spiritual gift of administration \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0 (kubernesis), \i0\fs20 a gift \fs22 of leadership appears as well \fs20 in Romans 12:8 \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 where Paul uses the word \i prohistemi.6 \i0 It literally means "to put \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 before" or "to go before." Originally it had the connotation of \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0 presiding, conducting, directing, or governing. I have often asked \cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 myself whether \i kubernesis \i0 and \i prohistemi \i0\fs20 represent \fs22 two differ-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ent gifts or two dimensions of the same gift, namely, congrega-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 tional leadership. As closely as these ideas are linked, we proba-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 bly must recognize them as two different gifts, both essential to \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw-2\f0 effective ministry.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi657\li52\ri736\sb7\sl257\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 In spite of today's popular emphasis on prestige and pub-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 licity, \i the New Testament concept \i0 of \i leadership emphasizes ser-\cf0\i0\f1\line\cf1\i\f0 vice. \i0 Those who utilize the gift of leadership (or administration) \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 must exemplify service and unity as models for the body. Some-\cf0\f1\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3331\sl302\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi235\li3331\ri3259\sb210\sl302\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-7\b\f0\fs20 TEAM LEADERSHIP \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-7\b\f0\fs20 IN CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1219\sl244\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li1219\ri1266\sb146\sl244\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 how we must balance delegated authority and loving concern in our constant quest for biblical leadership.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi744\li1243\ri1247\sb68\sl215\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 D. Swan Haworth identifies three interesting concepts of staff relationships:\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li2035\sl268\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2035\ri1247\sb55\sl268\slmult0\qj\tx2284\cf1\f0\fs22 1. A loosely organized staff which may have several "solo-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab ists" but no director, no regular rehearsals, and conse-\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li2284\ri1233\sb9\sl259\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 quently very little harmony; people on such a staff relate to each other only by necessity;\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li2040\sb19\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 2. An integrated staff held together by one commander; or\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li2049\sb16\sl253\slmult0\cf1\f0 3. A colleague relationship in which "each staff member\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li2303\ri1238\sl273\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 trusts the others, despite their difference. This colleague relationship requires each member of the team to be a responsible person."7\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi763\li1300\ri1219\sb271\sl279\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Relationships of the professional staff stand as a model \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 for any Christian ministry. Confusion and bickering at the top \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\fs26 will \fs22 not only destroy the working effectiveness of the manage-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\dn4\f0 ment team, but will filter down the ranks to distort inter\super\fs33 personal \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 relationships between other workers all the \super\fs33 way up and down the \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 line.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\li1296\sl276\slmult1\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li1305\sb144\sl276\slmult1\cf1\i\f0 The Requirement of a Bib\super\fs36 lical Lifestyle\cf0\nosupersub\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi758\li1296\ri1165\sb118\sl283\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 The Christian leader'\super\fs33 s behavior toward other people is \nosupersub\fs22 determined by inn\super\fs33 er qualities. To put it another way, interperson-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 al relations on a \super\fs33 horizontal plane arise from interpersonal rela \nosupersub\fs22 tions with God \super\fs33 on a vertical plane. We face so many people prob-\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 lems in the chu\super\fs33 rch because we have somehow confused ourselves \nosupersub\fs22 into thinking t\super\fs33 hat what we \i\fs36 do \i0\fs33 for God is more important than \nosupersub\fs22 what we \i\fs24 are \super\i0\fs33 before God. A distinctly Christian lifestyle, with \nosupersub\fs22 shared min istries in a c\super\fs33 ommunal setting, requires the grace of \nosupersub\fs22 n mutual acc\super\fs33 eptance, a willingness to enter into mutual burde \nosupersub\fs22 bearing, an\super\fs33 d a generous \fs39 dose of active \fs33 love.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11164\sl273\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par

\pard\li1977\ri3223\sb158\sl273\slmult0\qj\tx2545\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 UNITY AND COMMUNITY \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab\expndtw-8\b IN THE BODY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9278\sl257\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi19\li72\ri1364\sb132\sl257\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 knowing them as persons rather than merely as "employees." Paul Tournier points out two great fears that keep people from understanding each other: fear of being judged and fear of being \expndtw3 advised.8 Harsh criticism and flippant answers to troubling prob-\cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 lems are two clubs that can bludgeon human relations to death. For example, some adults have no ministry with teenagers because they greet every attempt at communication with a handy \expndtw1 "Oh yes, I used to feel like that. You'll get over it."\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi672\li67\ri1379\sb26\sl246\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 The immorality of manipulation is not confined to Madi-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\dn4\f0 son Avenue. It is just as wrong for Christian leaders as for the \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw3\f0 advertising executive who designs television commercials geared \cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\f0 to trick people into buying what they do not need and cannot \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 afford.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi676\li62\ri1379\sb57\sl257\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw2\up0\f0 In our pressure-cooker society, we find it difficult to grasp \expndtw0 and practice the biblical concept of patience. We tend to be obsessive and compulsive about our behavior, and frequently "come on too strong" in relationships with other people. I like the way Robert Lofton Hudson put it: "Impatience is a heresy of \expndtw3 the soul and an apostasy of the disposition."9\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\fi686\li48\ri1384\sb8\sl262\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Schaeffer called unity in love "the mark of the Christian" \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 and referred to that unity as "the final apologetic." He pointed \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 out that the world cares nothing for doctrine but has been given \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 the authority to judge the effectiveness and authenticity of the \cf0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0 church on the evidence of a loving lifestyle among members in its \cf0\expndtw0\f1\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0 community.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\par

\pard\li9187\sl276\slmult1\fs24\par

\pard\li62\sb113\sl276\slmult1\cf1\expndtw-5\i\f0 Understanding Interpersonal Encounters\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi720\li10\ri1393\sb119\sl269\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 In one sense, we can think of the whole social order as a \cf0\f1\line\cf1\i\dn4\f0\fs24 communications framework. If we \i0\fs22 want to \i\fs24 realize unity \i0\fs22 and \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 community, a third concept\f2\emdash\f0 communication (a term obviously \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 related to the first two)\f2\emdash\f0 must function properly (see chapter 24 \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 for more on communication). Communication can be verbal or \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 nonverbal and should not be confused with the information theo-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ry of hardware and software systems. Some sociologists re\super\fs33 mind\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\up0\fs12\par

\pard\li2059\sb1\sl226\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs22 Understa\super\fs33 nding one's fellow leaders involves seeing and\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li12115\sl126\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\b\f0\fs14 1Q\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par

\pard\li4320\sl288\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi235\li4084\ri3197\sb226\sl288\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs18 TEAM LEADERSHIP \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-1\b\f0\fs18 IN CHRISTIAN MINISTRY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2059\sl238\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi9\li2059\ri1281\sb121\sl238\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs22 us that no one person can be held responsible for communica-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\dn4\f0 tion; it is always a mutual process. The word \i\fs20 mutuality \i0\fs22 becomes \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 very important in recognizing the interrelated nature of commu-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 nication.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi729\li2049\ri1290\sb58\sl258\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0 Another term frequently used in sociological literature is \i\dn4\fs20 simultaneity. \i0\fs22 Communication is not like a Ping-Pong game in which messages are batted back and forth. Rather, the ongoing relationship between communicating people forms a simulta-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 neous process. People who effectively relate to other people rec-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 ognize that both what they say and what they hear pass through an emotional and cultural grid.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi763\li2006\ri1295\sb8\sl267\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0 When a Sunday school superintendent speaks to a teacher, the meaning of her words is not so much inherent in what she says, as in the way the reacher interprets them. These two people \dn4 are simultaneously active in the communication process and therefore mutually responsible for what happens in their dia-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 logue. Each loads up little trucks (words) with cargo (ideas) and sends them on their way. At the same time, each one is unloading the trucks sent by the other person.\cf0\f1\par

\pard\fi830\li1896\ri1304\sl275\slmult0\qj\tx1987\tx1977\tx1972\tx1963\tx1953\cf1\up0\f0 Sociology assumes that human beings develop their hu-\cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0\tab man abilities through social interaction. The community (chu\super\fs33 rch, \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\tab school, or other institution) provides the context for an anal\super\fs33 ysis \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\tab of relationships. We might also add that \super\fs33 it provides the context \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\tab for believers to function as the b\super\fs33 ody of Christ, in keeping with \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\tab the kind of patterns delineated \super\fs33 in \nosupersub\fs22 1 Corinthians 12 and similar \cf0\f1\line\cf1\f0 passages in the New Tes\super\fs33 tament. We are certainly not passive \nosupersub\fs22 recipients of everything \super\fs33 sociology and psychology tell us about \nosupersub\fs22 human relationships . But we must be astute discerners of tru\super\fs33 th \nosupersub\fs22 and willing to in tegrate information that fits our \super\fs33 understanding \nosupersub\fs22 of the special re\super\fs33 velation of God's Word.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi763\li1867\ri1309\sl283\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0 Perhaps this chap\super\fs33 ter should end where it began\f2\emdash\f0 with the \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0 church. Surel\super\fs33 y, any recognition of relationship styles must stand\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi14\li1852\ri1300\sl278\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0\fs24 under a prop\expndtw0\super\fs36 er delineation of the Lordship of Christ. Walter \expndtw-4\nosupersub\fs24 Liefeld has wr\expndtw0\super\fs36 itten:\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4972\sl230\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li4972\sb151\sl230\slmult0\cf1\i\f0\fs20 an\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11673\sl259\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par

\pard\li1886\ri2757\sb145\sl259\slmult0\qj\tx2439\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs18 UNITY AND COMMUNITY \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs18\tab\expndtw-8\b IN THE BODY\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10468\sl209\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi9\li672\ri899\sb59\sl209\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw-1\b\f0\fs20 A local church . . . functions as a body of disciples devoted to \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-1\b\f0\fs20 their Lord and transmitting His teaching. The church remem-\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\b\f0\fs20 bers the past, insofar as it reminds itself and the world of its \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-3\b\f0\fs20 origin in the death and resurrection of Christ. It faces the future \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-2\b\f0\fs20 as an eschatological community in which the characteristics of \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\b\f0\fs20 the kingdom and the presence of the king are realized in its \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 daily life.10\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9787\sl207\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li1953\sb205\sl207\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs18 FOR FURTHER READING\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li24\ri909\sb52\sl196\slmult0\qj\tx668\cf1\b\f0\fs20 Coppedge, Allan. \i The Biblical Principles of \b0 Discipleship. \b\i0 Grand \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab\expndtw-4\b Rapids: Francis Asbury, 1989.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li19\ri899\sb30\sl278\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\b\f0\fs20 Getz, Gene. \i Loving One Another. \i0 Wheaton, Ill.: Victor, 1979. \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs20 Madsen, Paul 0. \i The Small Church\f2\emdash\f0 Valid, Vital, Victorious. \i0 Valley\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li633\sb1\sl184\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-3\b\f0\fs20 Forge, \i Pa.: \i0 Judson, 1975.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri904\sb90\sl201\slmult0\qj\tx658\cf1\expndtw3\b\f0\fs20 Malphurs, Aubrey. \i Pouring New Wine into Old Wineskins. \i0 Grand \cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs20\tab\expndtw-4\b Rapids: Baker, 1993.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb69\sl230\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-4\b\f0\fs20 Stedman, Ray C. \i Body Life. \i0 Rev. ed. Glendale, Calif.: Regal, 1977.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9916\sl230\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2668\sb101\sl230\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-8\b\f0\fs20 NOTES\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li163\sb48\sl184\slmult0\tx3082\cf1\expndtw-1\b\f0\fs16 1. Ecclesiology class notes. Deerfield, \expndtw0\b0\tab\expndtw-2\b Trinity Evangelical Divinity School, 1970.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9916\sl177\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li148\ri881\sb24\sl177\slmult0\qj\tx423\cf1\b\dn4\f0\fs16 2. Francis Schaeffer, \i The Church at the End of the Twentieth Century \i0 (Downers \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs16\tab\b Grove, Ill.: InterVarsity, 1970), 62-66.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9916\sl182\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li148\ri871\sb21\sl182\slmult0\qj\tx418\cf1\b\dn4\f0\fs16 3. Ernest White, "Applying the Priesthood of the Believer to the Life and Work of a \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs16\tab\expndtw1\b Church," \i Search 1, \i0 no. 2 (Winter 1972): 13-18.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9916\sl184\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li139\sb13\sl184\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs16 4. Alan Redpath, \i The Royal Route to Heaven \i0 (Westwood, N.J.: Revell, 1960), 152.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9916\sl184\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li139\sb11\sl184\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs16 5. Schaeffer, \i The Church at the End of the Twentieth Century, \i0 56.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9916\sl184\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li144\sb6\sl184\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs16 6. For other appearances of \i prohistemi \i0 see \expndtw1 1 Thessalonians 5:12; \expndtw0 1 Timothy 3:4, \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li388\sb5\sl177\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-1\b\f0\fs16 12; 5:17; Titus 3:8, 14.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9916\sl187\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li134\ri832\sb16\sl187\slmult0\qj\tx404\cf1\expndtw1\b\dn4\f0\fs16 7. D. Swan Haworth, \i How Church Staff Members Relate \i0 (Nashville: Southern Bap-\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs16\tab\b tist Sunday School Board, 1969),1.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9916\sl192\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li134\ri832\sb2\sl192\slmult0\qj\tx414\cf1\b\dn4\f0\fs16 8. Paul Tournier, \i To Understand Each Other \i0 (Richmond, Va.: John \fs14 Knox, 1966), \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14\tab\b 19\fs16 -\fs14 25.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li129\ri813\sb191\sl192\slmult0\qj\tx395\cf1\b\up0\f0\fs16 9. Robert Lofton Hudson, \i What Makes \i0 for \i Patience? \i0 (Nashville: Southern Baptist \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs16\tab\expndtw1\b Sunday School Board, 1970), 7.\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li12667\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li2880\sb97\sl161\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs14 41\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\f0\fs24\par

\pard\li1728\sl1690\slmult0\f1\par
\par

\pard\fi1156\li1728\ri1133\sb1224\sl1690\slmult0\tx2702\cf1\b\f0\fs96 LESSON TWO \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs96\tab\b ELEMENTS OF \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs96 ADMINSTRATION\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par

\pard\li2764\sl368\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li2764\sb39\sl368\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs32 LESSON\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2558\sb148\sl1219\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs128 14\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4137\sl506\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par

\pard\li72\sb89\sl506\slmult0\cf1\b\dn4\f0\fs44 Administration\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4065\sl161\slmult0\up0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb40\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 In this last unit of the course \super\fs21 you have been studying some of the\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3168\sl126\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 13 we considered the\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li15095\sl184\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li5553\sb9\sl184\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs16 lesson objectives\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sl126\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 When you finish this lesson you should be able to:\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li3873\sl126\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 nonpreaching ministries of the past\super\fs21 or. In lesson\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi19\li3854\ri450\sl173\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 importance of preparing believers \super\fs21 through proper training to contribute to \nosupersub\fs14 the life of the church. We saw that \super\fs21 while some training is done through \nosupersub\fs14 formal instruction much of it is done by \super\fs21 demonstration, by example, and \nosupersub\fs14 step-by-step teaching. We will now discuss \super\fs21 the ways in which the pastor \nosupersub\fs14 uses \b\i the \b0\i0 ministry gifts and resources of the ch\super\fs21 urch.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi206\li3820\ri479\sb81\sl187\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 When we talk about administration, you may want \super\fs21 to say, or perhaps \expndtw1\nosupersub\fs14 you have heard other pastors say. "I am called to \super\fs21 preach, not to \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 administer." However, if we look at the word, we see that it c\super\fs21 ontains the \nosupersub\fs14 word "minister," showing us that it comes from a word that means "to serve." This is what a pastor dots, and in this case it tarries the meaning of "serving through managing the use or conduct of."\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi216\li3787\ri503\sb82\sl188\slmult0\qj\tx3816\cf1\f0\fs14 With this in mind, we will consider administration as it relates to the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14\tab work of the church and how to make the best use of the people resources \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 in the church. We will also study guidelines for administration in the local church, and we will examine how to apply them successfully in both large and small congregations.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3974\sb132\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 As you study this lesson, look for ways in which you can minister more\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li120\sb2\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14\page\f2\bullet\f0   Apply administrative planning to \b church activities.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9518\sl192\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li101\ri1936\sb1\sl192\slmult0\qj\tx357\cf1\b\f2\fs14\bullet\f0   Recognize organizational structure and relationships, and develop an \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14\tab\b organizational chart for a church.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9508\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li91\sb14\sl161\slmult0\cf1\b\f2\fs14\bullet\f0   Describe the leader's responsibility in the communication process.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9499\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li82\sb71\sl161\slmult0\cf1\b\f2\fs14\bullet\f0   Recognize the use of problem-solving methods in decision-making.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9475\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li67\sb62\sl161\slmult0\cf1\b\f2\fs14\bullet\f0   Appreciate the use of evaluation as a productive ministry tool.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9475\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li58\sb146\sl161\slmult0\tx5543\cf1\b\f0\fs14 I. Work through the lesson as usual and take the self-test when you have \b0\fs16\tab\b\dn4 learning activities\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li269\sb15\sl158\slmult0\cf1\b\up0\f0\fs14 completed the lesson development.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li19\sb114\sl161\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs14 2.  Review Lesson 12 through 14, and answer the questions in Unit \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li255\sb42\sl153\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs14 Progress Evaluation 4. You will find instructions in your student \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li250\sb47\sl144\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs14 packet.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb140\sl161\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs14 3. Review Lessons 1 through \cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\fi19\li3758\ri13\sl167\slmult0\tx9377\cf1\f0\fs14 effectively in directing the assets of \b\i the \b0\i0 people in the congregation. Pray \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 that the Lord Jesus Christ will help you to be sensitive to people and to \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 their needs and abilities. Finally, purpose to do everything in a fitting and \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 orderly way. \tab\b 4.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2006\sb84\sl184\slmult0\tx3738\cf1\b\f0\fs16 lesson outline \b0\fs14\tab Reviewing Administrative Functions\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi9\li3729\ri4958\sl187\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 Planning \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 Organizing \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 Leading\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3715\sb19\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 Evaluation\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2117\sl126\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs14\page 14 in preparation for taking your final\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li86\ri2119\sl168\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs14 examination. If you have not already made arrangements with your ICI instructor for taking the final examination, do so right away.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9633\sl133\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li72\ri2128\sb40\sl133\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs14 Look in the glossary for the meaning of any of the key words you do not know.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9566\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb71\sl161\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs14 feedback\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb31\sl161\slmult0\tx6107\cf1\b\f0\fs14 function \b0\fs16\tab\expndtw2\b key words\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par

\pard\li9259\sl126\slmult0\cf1\f2\fs14\bullet\bullet\b\f4\u9642?\b0\u9642?\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li1368\sl184\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li1368\sb37\sl184\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs16 less= development\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1401\sb94\sl184\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs16 OBJECTIVE I. \b0\i\fs12 identify\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1401\ri17\sb5\sl177\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\b\i\f0\fs10 4 itt \b0\fs12 general functions of \cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs12 adrninutration\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3244\sl161\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb145\sl161\slmult0\tx736\cf1\i\f0\fs14 284 \i0\tab\i\dn4 The Work of the Pastor\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3259\sl161\slmult0\up0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li15\sb146\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 REVIEWING ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi201\li29\ri722\sb113\sl196\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 In the introduction to this lesson, we pointed out that "minister" is \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs14 included  in  the  word \i administer. \i0 When we look at administrative \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs14 activities as part of "serving" and 'ministry," we realize that these \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 activities arc as spiritual as other gifts of ministry. They arc never a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 substitute for the work of the Holy Spirit. Paul emphasized this when he \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 listed among the gifts God gave to the body of Christ those with 'gifts of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 administration" (I Corinthians 12:28).\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi201\li58\ri736\sb93\sl201\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 According to dictionaries, the word \i administration. \i0 means "to serve, to \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 manage or supervise the use of, or the conduct of." We have outlined\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11683\sl161\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li2376\sb3\sl161\slmult0\tx3577\tx4940\cf1\i\dn4\f0\fs14 Lesson 14. \i0\tab\i Administration \i0\tab\i 285\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9321\sl199\slmult0\up0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\fi28\li10\ri2154\sb39\sl199\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 important planning is. Then, as tasks and the number of people increase. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 organization becomes very important. We can see that these functions are all interrelated; however, they must be ordered and arranged, and this \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 involves \i organization. Organization may \i0 be defined as "the process of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs14 arranging things by systematic planning." Then. to be \i sure \i0 that the \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 organization was planned correctly and carried out effectively, we must \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 evaluate it. As we continue through this lesson, we will \i see \i0 how these \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 functions are needed in the various ministries of the church.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri2822\sb13\sl302\slmult0\qj\tx399\cf1\f0\fs14 1 Match the administrative activity (left) with its function (right). \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14\tab\expndtw2 a inspiring a teacher to continue her\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\fi4\li3297\ri623\sl182\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 some of the functions included in the term administration below. As we \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs14 continue  this  lesson,  we  will  discuss  each  major  function  of \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 administration\f2\bullet\f0 in relation to the ministry of the church body as a whole. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 Study the following outline and think about how you have used some or all of these functions recently.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3595\sb117\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 I. Planning\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3787\sb36\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 A. \i Elements of Planning\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3988\sb36\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 1. Making surveys, estimates\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3979\sb36\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 2. Setting objectives\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3983\sb26\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 3. Developing policies\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3969\sb40\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 4. Developing procedures\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3983\sb31\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 5. Making schedules\cf0\f1\fs22\par
\cf1\f0\fs14 6. Budgeting\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3609\sb122\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 II. Organizing\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3806\sb36\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 A. \i Elements of Organization\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4017\sb31\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 1. Developing structure\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3998\sb31\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 2. Delegating\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li586\sb7\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14\page class with a new lesson series\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li43\ri37\sb138\sl177\slmult0\qj\tx601\cf1\f2\fs14\bullet\f0  \f2\bullet\f0  .1- b. Relating new believers together in a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14\tab class with a teacher who knows how to\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li581\sb39\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 instruct them\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi4\li403\ri6\sb32\sl288\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 c Making a "to do" list for tomorrow \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs14 d \b0 Correcting mistakes and explaining\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li557\sb18\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 how and why\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li399\ri20\sb99\sl196\slmult0\qj\tx582\cf1\f0\fs14 e Calculating  the  time needed for a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14\tab program\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li389\ri34\sb101\sl192\slmult0\qj\tx577\cf1\f0\fs14 f Assigning responsibility and authority \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14\tab for work to be done\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9244\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb23\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 PLANNING\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li39\sl126\slmult0\tx390\cf1\expndtw-1\f0\fs14\page 1) \expndtw0\tab Planning\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li15\sl126\slmult0\tx376\cf1\f0\fs14 2) \tab Organizing\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li15\sb1\sl161\slmult0\tx376\cf1\f0\fs14 3) \tab Leading\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb35\sl161\slmult0\tx371\cf1\f0\fs14 4) \tab Evaluation\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3527\sl177\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\fi19\li1877\ri319\sb55\sl177\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 OBJECTIVE 2. \i Apply \fs12 the \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs12 principles of planning to a\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\fi475\li3527\ri3105\sl149\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 3. Identifying relationships \b III. \b0 Leading\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3820\sb33\sl161\slmult0\cf1\i\f0\fs12 A. Elements \fs14 of Leading\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4027\sb27\sl161\slmult0\cf1\i\f0\fs14 I. \i0 Communicating\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4003\sb31\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 2. Decision making\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4012\sb31\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 3. Training personnel\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3623\sb122\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 IV. Evaluation\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3820\sb31\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 A. \i Elements of Evaluation\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4027\sb26\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 I. Establishing a standard\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4012\sb36\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 2. Measuring against the standard\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4012\sb26\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 3. Correcting\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi192\li3331\ri642\sb123\sl190\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 These functions arc not new to you. You probably perform them every \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 day. As your church grows, and you have more responsibility, you will be \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 required to assume more of each function or develop ways of delegating \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 the functions. When there is more to be done, we realize how much more\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi230\li24\ri4\sl181\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs14\page Perhaps you have heard the saying. "If you fail to plan, you are \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 planning to fail." Like most proverbs, it contains a truth. When we study Scripture, we sec that God Himself is our perfect model of planning. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 From the beginning He declared His plan of redemption for man. We can also see divine planning in the lives of biblical characters as God directed their lives and influenced following generations. Joseph referred to the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 plan God made many years before when he said to his brothers, "God sent me ahead of you to preserve for you a remnant on earth and to save your lives by a great deliverance" (Genesis 45:7).\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9192\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb112\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 What is Planning?\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi196\li10\ri56\sb148\sl194\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 A plan is "a predetermined course of action." As you saw in the list of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 the elements of planning, it can involve several types of activities. A \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 simple term for planning is looking ahead." Any time we try to think out\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb34\sl138\slmult0\cf1\expndtw1\i\f0\fs12\page plan for a cled( activity.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\sl140\slmult0\cf1\f4\fs14\u9632?\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par

\pard\li3902\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3902\sb46\sl161\slmult0\tx4588\cf1\i\f0\fs14 286 \i0\tab\i The Work of the Pastor\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3902\sl190\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\fi4\li3902\ri561\sb26\sl190\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 what we want to do, or will try to do, it involves planning. It is the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 opposite of just going ahead by trial and error, or of working by chance. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 Planning is a deliberate attempt to visualize something before you \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 actually do it. Look at the usual way one builds a house. Before he does\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11836\sl161\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li2241\sb154\sl161\slmult0\tx3380\tx4609\cf1\i\f0\fs14 Lesson \b 14. \b0\i0\tab\b\i Administration \b0\i0\tab\i 287\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9595\sl201\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li10\ri2142\sb181\sl201\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 committees don't work well  and they tend to inti\super\fs21 midate some people. \nosupersub\fs14 Keep them trim so that "bigness' won't intimidate some me\super\fs21 mbers and \nosupersub\fs14 keep them from participating.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4358\sb92\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 ifferent\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li9787\sl126\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 2. \i The group must be broad enough to be representative. \i0 D\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li3912\ri561\sl168\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 anything else, he draws a blueprint\f2\emdash\f0 a plan. The prospective home owner thus knows generally what it will look like before he actually builds it. The home owner considers how much room he will \i need. \i0 if he has a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 family of six and will do a lot of entertaining, he will need to build a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 larger house. Thus, the plan must correspond with the purpose. Even if one does not draw a project on paper, he has planned it in his mind. You must think out certain factors before you act. This kind of planning is necessary for all the development and activities of the church.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3912\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li3912\sb37\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 Who Does Planning?\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi201\li3887\ri576\sb93\sl203\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 Who is responsible for the planning of the church? Each one is \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 different. In some churches, planning may be done by those who are \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 designated in the church constitution or charter. Or, in some small \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 churches, planning is done on the basis of informal agreements. In many \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 cases the church board might be considered a planning committee. If it is \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 a large church, each department may have a committee that is charged \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 with planning. However, if there are committees within departments, they \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 must have some way of relating to the church as a whole. What we arc \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 talking about here concerns planning for the whole church rather than one \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 aspect of it. There are some simple principles for you to follow if the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 planning group is either your responsibility or that of someone you \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 designate.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi196\li3897\ri585\sb89\sl205\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 Planning functions arc usually done by a group or a committee. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 Sometimes basic planning may be done by an individual, but somewhere in the process a committee or group must either be consulted or give \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 approval. There are certain principles about planning groups that \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 contribute to their success:\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi230\li3878\ri575\sb91\sl207\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs14 1. \b0\i The group must be small enough to be functional. \i0 If the planning \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 group is too big, it is hard to assemble all of the members. The number of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 members depends on what has to be accomplished. While three is usually \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 considered the minimum, five or seven members make a good working \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 group. However, if the committee is appointed for one special function \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 that includes many activities, you will need a larger group. Fur instance, a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 M15510115 convention committee may include from eleven to fifteen \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 members, and subcommittees will be responsible for different activities. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs14 Each committee \b0 should be small enough to get the work done and large \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 enough to handle the tasks efficie ntly. You will find that most large\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi9\li10\ri2142\sl159\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14\page segments of your church ministries must be represented. Som\super\fs21 etimes the \nosupersub\fs14 church ministries arc divided according to age groups, or t\super\fs21 hey may be \nosupersub\fs14 divided according to the purpose of the planning.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri2152\sb96\sl182\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 2 Circle the words describing factors that contribute to \b a \b0 successful \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 planning group.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi4\li10\ri5800\sb9\sl184\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs14 a \b0   Exclusive \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs14 b \b0   All-inclusive \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 c   Functional \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs14 d \b0   Dependent \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 e   Representative\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi187\li10\ri2157\sb84\sl192\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 I would like to illustrate two possible ways of creating a planning \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 group for a church.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li13728\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li4133\sb65\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 Figure \expndtw-3 14.1\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3628\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3628\sb32\sl138\slmult0\tx4271\cf1\i\f0\fs12 288 \i0\tab\i The Work of the Pastor\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3609\sl174\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\fi206\li3585\ri220\sb47\sl174\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 Under Group A, the church ministries arc divided according to their \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 particular interest or responsibility. For example, the interests would be \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 adult and child education, outreach, training, music, missions, women's \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 ministries, and youth ministries. Within each of these interests, there is a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\dn4\f0\fs12 planning group, and with each group a church board member (deacon) \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 who relates to that group and communicates its needs and plans to the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 church board. Some large congregations operate like this.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi201\li3561\ri292\sb78\sl171\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\up0\f0\fs12 Under Group B, members of the group are representatives of the \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 different major ministries \i and \i0 activities of the church. In addition, all the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 deacons or elders and the treasurer are included. This seems to work \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs12 effectively in \i0 most situations. The whole church is fully represented and \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 no ministry feels left out and unimportant.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3542\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li3542\sb9\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 Functions of Planning\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi182\li3513\ri359\sb93\sl172\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 Planning that is done by an individual, a group, or a church should be \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\dn4\f0\fs12 done in answer to two questions: When is it done, and how is it done?\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi201\li3480\ri383\sb83\sl171\slmult0\qj\cf1\up0\f0\fs12 The "when" of any plan, of course, depends on "what" needs to be \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 planned. If the subject concerned is the Christian education program, then \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 it will probably follow the school year. If it is the church budget, it may \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 follow the calendar or fiscal year. The primary concern about "when" is \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 for the planning to be done enough in advance to be of value. To start \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 planning two weeks before you want to hold a city-wide evangelistic \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 campaign would certainly be useless. We will discuss this subject more in this lesson when we consider scheduling.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi206\li3441\ri451\sb85\sl169\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 If a planning group is responsible for needs that cover the year, the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 group should meet before the year begins and work out a plan. Some \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 projects or situations may require a five year plan, a yearly plan, or a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 quarterly plan. If your church is new and your planning committees are \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 new, it is best that their first experience of planning be a small project o\super\fs18 r \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 for a short time period.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi206\li3403\ri508\sb87\sl168\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 Scheduling time is a major consideration for planni\super\fs18 ng, for this you \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 need a master calendar. This is a calendar \super\fs18 on which every church function \nosupersub\fs12 is scheduled so that any group making plans can co\super\fs18 nsult the calendar and \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs12 avoid \i0 the problem of time conflicts or duplication of effort.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3571\sb111\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 When we look at how planning is done, we should f\super\fs18 ollow certain steps:\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi220\li3360\ri556\sb95\sl170\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 I. \i Establish goals. \i0 Anything \i that \i0 i s planned for the \i church \i0 must have a \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 goal \i based \i0 on the overa ll mission of the church. A goal is the end toward \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs12 which effort \i0 is directed. \fs10 An \fs12 objec tive is the overall mission. For instance. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\i\f0\fs12 evangelism is \i0 one of the objectiv\super\fs18 es of the church. The goal of an \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 evangelistic crusade is \i to g\super\fs18 ive a gospel witness to every home in a certain\cf0\nosupersub\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11088\sl138\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li2482\sb133\sl138\slmult0\tx3524\tx4643\cf1\i\f0\fs12 Lesson 14. \i0\tab\i Administration \i0\tab\i 289\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9024\sl177\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\fi4\li418\ri3150\sb4\sl177\slmult0\qj\cf1\i\f0\fs12 area. \i0 When you accomplish this, you have reached your goal, though you have \i not \i0 totally completed the objective of evangelism.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi254\li317\ri3184\sb88\sl170\slmult0\qj\tx419\tx414\tx400\tx390\tx376\cf1\f0\fs12 2. \i Stale goals in measurable terms. \i0 This means that you should have \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab some way of knowing that you have reached your goal. For instance, with \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab the goal of providing a gospel witness to every home in a certain area, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab how would you know if you had reached it? However, if you state the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab goal in measurable terms, you would say: Our goal is to I) Distribute \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab gospel literature to the three hundred households in our village between \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 June 1-15 and 2) On June 5, 10, and 15, hold open air \i services \i0 in central \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 locations. After \i lune \i0 15, you can determine whether or not you have \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 reached your goal.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi259\li216\ri3314\sb92\sl168\slmult0\qj\tx323\tx313\tx304\tx294\tx280\tx275\tx270\cf1\f0\fs12 3. \i Make goals realistic. \i0 Some people tend to feel that making realistic \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab goals reveals \i a lack of faith. One example \i0 of an unrealistic goal is: A \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab church with twenty members stated that its \i goal \i0 was to win \i ten thousand \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab souls in one month. This is measurable but it is not realistic. The goal \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab stated in point 2 is more realistic \i than \i0 saying, "hold an evangelistic \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab campaign in the area and win five hundred souls.' You can pray for the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab Lord to bring in five hundred souls, \i but \i0 perhaps there are five hundred \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab fifty that the Holy Spirit is going to bring in. What you can specifically \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 measure and do is to distribute the literature and witness to the three \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 hundred homes, and of course, pray.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi172\li192\ri3443\sb78\sl167\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 4. \i Determine needs to reach goals. \i0 These are the actual \i things that you must \i0 do to realize \i the \i0 goal. They include such things as:\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li360\sb107\sl138\slmult0\tx625\cf1\expndtw-6\f0\fs12 1. \expndtw0\tab Securing permission from officials\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li336\sb35\sl138\slmult0\tx615\cf1\f0\fs12 2. \tab Inviting the speaker\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li331\sb30\sl138\slmult0\tx606\cf1\expndtw-2\f0\fs12 3. \expndtw0\tab Making announcements\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li312\sb25\sl138\slmult0\tx601\cf1\f0\fs12 4. \tab Budgeting materials, manpower, and money\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li307\sb39\sl138\slmult0\tx582\cf1\expndtw-2\f0\fs12 5. \expndtw0\tab Scheduling\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li298\sb25\sl138\slmult0\tx572\cf1\f0\fs12 6. \tab Including any items listed under \i elements of planning\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi201\li77\ri3549\sb94\sl166\slmult0\qj\tx136\cf1\f0\fs12 For example, under scheduling what is the best way to schedule \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab preparation for an evangelistic effort? \i One \i0 of \i the \i0 best ways to do this is to \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 start from the "end" and work your way back. If your goal is to conduct a crusade on July 1-6, start with this date and work back to determine how much time you need to prepare for each activity.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi4\li53\ri3601\sb92\sl163\slmult0\qj\cf1\i\f0\fs12 3 \i0 Circle the CORRECT completions. When planning is done, goals are \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 needed to\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi28\li10\ri4375\sl167\slmult0\tx64\cf1\f0\fs12 a   limit the church's effort to a few objectives. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab b   know what is to be accomplished and how it will be \i done. \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\f0\fs12 c \b0   unify and direct the efforts of those who participate. \b d \b0   expand \i faith \i0 to \i unlimited \i0 possibilities.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb27\sl138\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs12 e \b0   predict the necessary ingredients \i for \i0 success.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3715\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3715\sb79\sl138\slmult0\tx4382\cf1\i\f0\fs12 290 \i0\tab\i The Work of the Pastor\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3734\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li3734\sb92\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 4 In your notebook write a plan to cover the fo\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li14644\sl161\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li7790\sb55\sl161\slmult0\cf1\i\f0\fs14 291\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5217\sl126\slmult0\tx6442\cf1\i\f0\fs14 Lesson 14. \i0\tab\i Administratio\super\fs21 n\cf0\nosupersub\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li6854\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li10\sb160\sl161\slmult0\tx3073\cf1\f0\fs14 llowing situation: Suppose \tab The concept of organization has \super\fs21 two major aspects. One is the process\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2856\sb1\sl157\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 of getting people to work to\super\fs21 gether in relationships that will best attain\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li3743\ri816\sl156\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 you are the pastor of a church with 200 mem\super\fs21 bers. You and the church \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 board have decided to invite a guest teacher to \super\fs21 train people in your church \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 to be Bible study leaders. Consider the\super\fs21 se facts in your plan: Church\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li7108\sl133\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 ild a body of believers\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri1657\sb8\sl191\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs14\page their common goals. For ex\super\fs21 ample, a group of young people banded \cf0\expndtw0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 together to win, train, and mobilize \super\fs21 other young people for the work of \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 the Lord.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li3753\sl126\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 objective: To be a channel of God's purpose to bu\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li3763\ri800\sl171\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 growing in spiritual maturity. Program goal: Prep\super\fs21 are ten workers to lead \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 home Bible study groups by training them in a sixtee\super\fs21 n hour seminar on \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 eight Sunday afternoons in January and February. Write a step \super\fs21 by step \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 program schedule of what must be done to prepare for this seminar. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 Consider dates, participants. publicity, hospitality, and items related to\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi187\li10\ri1668\sl181\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14\page The other aspect of organization is \i str\super\fs21 ucture. \i0 or a plan which shows \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 how people are expected to relate \super\fs21 to one another. When this relationship \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 is written out in a plan, it is called an \i or\super\fs21 ganizational chart. \i0 The chart \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 shows the structure and it also shows how people \super\fs21 relate to one another in\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3735\sb1\sl145\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 t big companies and\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li9734\sl126\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 the organization. A common type of organization tha\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li3767\sl124\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 budget. Review the items under \i\fs12 elements of planning.\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi187\li3767\ri806\sb17\sl188\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 A church is not a business in the sense of a money-making corporation; however it is the King's business, and it requires the most efficient care we can give. The procedures we have described are means to help the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 church function more effectively.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2006\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li3772\sb80\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 ORGANIZING\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2006\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li2011\sb67\sl161\slmult0\tx3772\cf1\f0\fs14 OBJECTIVE 3. \b\i\fs12  Recog\f2\bullet\f0  \b0\i0\tab\expndtw1\b\i Structure\cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2006\sb25\sl138\slmult0\tx2678\cf1\expndtw1\b\i\f0\fs12 nit( \expndtw0\b0\i0\tab\b\i organizational\cf0\b0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2011\sb26\sl138\slmult0\tx3959\cf1\b\i\f0\fs12 rnehods and draw an or-\b0\i0\fs14\tab There are many different theories about organization, and many books\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2006\sb35\sl138\slmult0\tx3787\cf1\b\i\f0\fs12 ganizational chart. \b0\i0\fs14\tab have been written on the subject. With all the theories of organization,\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3792\ri786\sl187\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 there arc many definitions. For the purpose of this lesson, let us say that \i\fs12 organizing \i0\fs14 refers to "a process of grouping, arranging, and assigning \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 work to be done by \i\fs12 a \i0\fs14 group of people to achieve a common goal."\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5548\sl139\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li5548\ri2558\sb26\sl139\slmult0\qj\tx6014\cf1\f0\fs14 EXECUTIVE \fs12 LEADER \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab (pastor)\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5534\sl134\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li5534\ri2505\sb73\sl134\slmult0\qj\tx5760\cf1\f0\fs12 SECONDARY LEADER \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab (associate pastor)\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4382\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li4382\sb60\sl138\slmult0\tx6695\cf1\f0\fs12 MIDDLE LEADER \tab MIDDLE LEADER\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4550\sl114\slmult0\tx6815\cf1\f0\fs12 (youth leader) \tab (music director)\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4310\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li4694\sb35\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 WORKERS\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li6935\sl108\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 WORKERS\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4310\sl108\slmult0\tx6998\cf1\f0\fs12 (Sunday School Teachers) \tab (deacons)\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li7939\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li7939\sb108\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 Figure \expndtw-6 14.2\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri1672\sl153\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14\page the military use is called \i direct line \fs12 organization_ \i0\fs14 Its c\super\fs21 hart would look \cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 like Figure 14.2.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi191\li10\ri1677\sb106\sl191\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs14 This type of organization is not suitable for a church because, in \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0\fs14 reality, each person is supposed to communicate only through the \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 supervisor above him and not go directly to the executive leader.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi196\li10\ri1672\sb102\sl191\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 Another type of organization is called line-staff. The chief executive \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 has staff members who advise him and with their advice he supervises the middle leaders. A line staff chart would look like Figure 14.3.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li14131\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li4402\sb18\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 Figure 14.3 \cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9955\sl206\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi192\li34\ri1638\sb152\sl206\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs14 A third type of organization is called \i functional. \i0 In this type the \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 employees work and arc supervised according to the work involved. How\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li38\ri1639\sb44\sl153\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs14 the people relate to one another depends on the task rather than the \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 position. A functional chart may look like Figure 14.4.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9772\sl134\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi182\li43\ri1629\sb75\sl134\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 This sample chart shows \i a \i0 local church that has \i a \i0 congregational form \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 of government. it may be briefly described as:\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par

\pard\li9984\sl126\slmult0\cf1\f2\fs14\bullet\bullet\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li3859\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3859\sb87\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 292\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4041\sl161\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li4041\sb117\sl161\slmult0\cf1\expndtw-2\f0\fs14 1.\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4564\sl161\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li240\sb126\sl161\slmult0\cf1\b\i\f0\fs14 The \b0 Work of the Pastor\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4324\sl172\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li10\ri890\sb100\sl172\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 The pastor is directly responsible to the congregation. He is \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 elected by the people.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li12124\sl161\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li2169\sb140\sl161\slmult0\tx3284\tx4498\cf1\i\f0\fs14 Lesson 14. \i0\tab\b\i Administratioh \b0\i0\tab\b\i 293\cf0\b0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri2504\sb260\sl326\slmult0\qj\tx399\tx3167\tx3474\cf1\i\f0\fs14 5 \i0 Match the organization type (right) with its description (left). \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14\tab a The deacons advise the pastor con-\tab\expndtw-5 1) \expndtw0\tab\dn4 Direct Line\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\up0\fs12\par

\pard\li4051\sl126\slmult0\tx4343\cf1\f0\fs14 2. \tab The deacons serve as advisors and are elected by the people. There\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4367\ri1224\sl162\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 is usually a minimum of three deacons with one more added for \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 each fifty persons in the congregation.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4080\sb10\sl161\slmult0\tx4367\cf1\expndtw-8\f0\fs14 3_ \expndtw0\tab The deacons, who arc co-chairmen of each division represent the\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi297\li4084\ri1200\sb16\sl192\slmult0\tx4375\cf1\f0\fs14 different aspects of the life and mission of the church. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 4. \tab T h e straight lines are lines of authority while the dotted lines are\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4392\sb26\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 lines of consultation,\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4108\sb31\sl161\slmult0\tx4387\cf1\expndtw-2\f0\fs14 5. \expndtw0\tab Th e chart combines position boxes and ministry boxes.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4103\sb26\sl161\slmult0\tx4396\cf1\f0\fs14 6. \tab\expndtw1 For a large church, each area of ministry can have its own\cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4401\sb31\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 organizational chart.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li6052\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li6052\sb121\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 Congregation\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li6278\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li6278\sb109\sl138\slmult0\tx7602\tx7977\cf1\f0\fs12 Pastor \tab\expndtw-7 '1 \expndtw0\tab Deacons\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li120\ri17\sl170\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14\page cerning needs of the church mini-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw2\f0\fs14 stries to whom they relate. The pastor \expndtw0 tells them what he wishes to be done. The deacons interact with people under their supervision.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri3\sb112\sl182\slmult0\qj\tx184\cf1\f0\fs14 b In a large church the pastor com-\cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14\tab municates only with the assistant\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li149\ri-7\sb5\sl182\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 pastors. They communicate to the workers they supervise.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\ri-21\sb106\sl182\slmult0\qj\tx193\cf1\f0\fs14 c For the Easter music program. the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14\tab music director confers\f2\bullet\f0 with the pas-\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi4\li168\ri-26\sb6\sl187\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 tor about suitable music and singers. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 With an assistant pastor they plan the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 program,\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb1\sl158\slmult0\tx347\cf1\f0\fs14\page 2) \tab Line staff\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb31\sl161\slmult0\tx347\cf1\f0\fs14 3) \tab Functional\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\fi5870\li4142\sb1\sl128\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 6 In your notebook draw an organizational chart for a church that has a\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi5875\li4142\sb38\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 pastor, five deacons, and three lay leaders who are in charge of\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li4310\sb117\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0 Chairman\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4142\sb6\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 EVANGELISM\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4161\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li4161\sb33\sl138\slmult0\tx4511\cf1\expndtw-7\f2\fs12\emdash\f0 1 \expndtw0\tab Crusades\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4473\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li4473\sb10\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 Outstation\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li120\sb112\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12\page Chairman\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb6\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 EDUCATION\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5779\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li341\sb85\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 Sunday\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li365\sb11\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 School\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5807\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li369\sb66\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 Training\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li201\sb93\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12\page Chairman\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb11\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 STEWARDSHIP'\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li6935\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li335\sb94\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 Budding\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li403\sb11\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 Repair\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li6878\sl148\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\fi14\li264\ri109\sb129\sl148\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 Collecting, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 recording, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 reporting of\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li403\sb5\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 money\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li33\sb112\sl138\slmult0\tx2127\cf1\f0\fs12\page Chairman \fs14\tab evangelism, education, and music.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb6\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 WORSHIP\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2126\sb102\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 Relationships\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li8236\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li321\sb47\sl138\slmult0\tx2289\cf1\f0\fs12 Music \fs14\tab The  organizational  chart  gives  an  indication  of  a  person's\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2126\ri-15\sl178\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 responsibility in an organization, and it can also show relationships. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 Relationships occur in two ways: I) a person must know how he fits into\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li91\sb49\sl138\slmult0\tx2120\cf1\f0\fs12 Church decor \fs14\tab the organization, and 2) he must know how to carry out his responsibility.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li2140\ri-29\sl193\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 For the organization to be successful, the leader (the pastor) has to know \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 this for himself, and he must help those who work with him understand\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li15000\sl168\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par

\pard\fi4\li10\ri58\sb11\sl168\slmult0\qj\tx1018\tx1280\cf1\b\f0\fs12 OBJECTIVE \b0\tab\b 4. \b0\tab\expndtw-1\b\i Select \cf0\expndtw0\b0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\i\f0\fs12 statements that explain the \cf0\b0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\i\f0\fs12 relationships   in   an  or\f2\bullet\f0  \cf0\b0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\b\i\f0\fs12 ganiration.\cf0\b0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li5745\ri18\sl140\slmult0\qj\tx5875\cf1\f0 Youth, mens, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab women\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li5937\sb3\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 groups\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sl810\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs90\page j\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li1608\sl126\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 Figure 14.4\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb19\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14\page their relationships. Two methods help him to do this:\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi206\li10\ri1741\sb104\sl195\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 1. \i Job descriptions. \i0 How would you feel if you were told to do \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 something and you were not told exactly what was expected of you? That \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 would be frustrating. A job description provides the description of duties, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 responsibilities, and lines of authority. The following items are usually\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\fi196\li4046\ri762\sl172\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 Most churches use a com\super\fs21 bination of the three organization types, with \nosupersub\b\fs14 very \b0 little of the direct line type. Chu\super\fs21 rch work includes a variety of tasks \nosupersub\fs14 so leaders and worke\super\fs21 rs relate to each other in functional ways. Functions \nosupersub\fs14 arc usually car\super\fs21 ried out in a pattern similar to this:\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4272\sb125\sl161\slmult0\tx4555\cf1\expndtw-7\f0\fs14 1. \expndtw0\tab Identify a goal \super\fs21 and the tasks needed to accomplish it\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4252\sb36\sl161\slmult0\tx4555\cf1\f0\fs14 2. \tab Allocate the tasks to \super\fs21 members of the group.\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4257\sb41\sl161\slmult0\tx4564\cf1\f0\fs14 3. \tab Determine relatio\super\fs21 nships of people and tasks to each other to avoid\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4555\sb16\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 overlapping.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4252\sb46\sl161\slmult0\tx4564\cf1\f0\fs14 4. \tab Keep organization \super\fs21 dynamic. Reorganize function and structure to\cf0\nosupersub\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li4569\sb40\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 meet needs.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb26\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14\page included in a job description:\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li207\sb127\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 I . The title of the job or work.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li192\sb26\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 2.  To whom the person is responsible.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li202\sb41\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs14 3. Qualifications needed.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li202\sb26\sl161\slmult0\tx515\cf1\f0\fs14 4 . \tab Description of duties.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi182\li24\ri1648\sb109\sl196\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs14 Other job descriptions would include a list of benefits such as paid vacations, sick leave, and disability benefits, but these may not be \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs14 necessary in a church situation.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3552\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3552\sb138\sl138\slmult0\tx4180\cf1\i\f0\fs12 294 \i0\tab\i\dn4 The Work of the Pastor\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li532\sl161\slmult0\up0\fs24\par

\pard\li532\sb105\sl161\slmult0\cf1\f2\fs14\bullet\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi182\li3532\ri501\sl183\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 Who is responsible to define jobs? Situations vary with each church, so \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 this must be flexible. Sometimes a board or a committee.defines the job. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 If you arc starting a new church, you may have to do it. If the position \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 already exists, the person who is in \i the \i0 position \i may \i0 be \i the \i0 best one to \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 describe it. Once a job description is made, the supervising person should \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 sit down with the person involved and go through it with them to be sure \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 he understands it clearly.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi187\li3523\ri558\sb97\sl187\slmult0\qj\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs12 2. \i Coordinate responsibilities. \i0 It is very interesting to note how \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 coordinated a healthy body is. The relationship of \i the \i0 different parts of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 the human body shows how each part has a responsibility to some other \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs12 part. That is how relationships should be coordinated in the church \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 body.--for each part is responsible to and dependent on another part.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi196\li3480\ri615\sb177\sl183\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 Suppose there is a Sunday School teacher in your church who needs \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 coloring pencils for his class. How does he know whom \fs8 to \fs12 ask for the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 pencils? If not you, who? If many people in your church have similar \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 types of questions, you will have problems on your hands. By clarifying \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 lines of responsibility, each one understands how he fits in the chain of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 relationship which is described as either a line of authority or a line of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs12 consultation. We may not be able to describe all the aspects of an \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 organization fully with a paper chart because of some complexities and \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs12 changes that occur from time to time. In fact, the dynamics of an \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 organization requite the chart to be changed and improved as needed. The \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 chart's main purpose is to give a picture of how tasks are allocated and \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 how they relate to each other.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3470\ri717\sb120\sl153\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 7 Circle the letter of each CORRECT completion. In relationships each \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 participant needs to understand\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3465\ri1230\sb12\sl163\slmult0\qj\cf1\b\f0\fs12 a \b0   how he fits in the organization and to whom he is responsible. b   the limits of his authority and how to maintain control.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3456\sb16\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 c   what is expected of him.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li3441\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par

\pard\li3441\sb34\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 LEADING\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi201\li3403\ri784\sb88\sl179\slmult0\qj\tx3925\tx4808\tx5355\tx5754\tx6301\tx7501\cf1\f0\fs12 We have defined leadership as any contribution that comes from any \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 member of the group to achieve group goals. I like this definition because \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 it shows that leadership is not confined to one or a few people. In this \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 section of \i our \i0 lesson we will look at two main qualities that contribute to \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 good \tab leadership. \tab These \tab arc \tab "clear \tab communication" \tab and \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 "decision-making." First we will consider how to overcome barriers to \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 communication.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li11164\sl138\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li2409\sb10\sl138\slmult0\tx3461\tx4578\cf1\i\f0\fs12 Lesson 14. \i0\tab\i Administration \i0\tab\i 295\cf0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li9072\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par
\par

\pard\li317\sb138\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 Communication and Leadership\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi62\li240\ri10\sb85\sl188\slmult0\qj\tx327\tx313\tx313\tx299\cf1\f0\fs12 Everyone is involved in communication. It is \i the \i0 process and art of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab transmitting a message. Communication is made up of three essential \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab parts. First, the source person has an intent, or \i meaning. \i0 This may \i be \i0 an \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab idea, a feeling, or information. Then, there is the \i receiver \fs8 to \i0\fs12 whom the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab meaning is sent The receiver is a person who has \i perceptions which may \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 effect how he receives the meaning. When the communication process is \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 clear, the receiver understands the meaning exactly as the source person \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 intended. Here are some suggestions for helping your receiver understand \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 the message as you intend it:\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi225\li187\ri59\sb85\sl184\slmult0\qj\tx241\cf1\f0\fs12 I. \i Understand and know what you wish to communicate. \i0 Have a clear, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab objective idea of what you want to say, not just some hazy concept. If \i yea \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 need to make a formal presentation or an announcement, write it out \i and \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 practice saying it aloud so you have in mind exactly what you want to say. Make \i a \i0 habit of using notes \i and \i0 outlines.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi196\li144\ri130\sb85\sl184\slmult0\qj\cf1\f0\fs12 2. \i Know about the people with whom you communicate. \i0 The more you know about the receiver, the better you can \fs8 state \fs12 your message so he will \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 understand. If you know about his personality you will understand his \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 perceptions even better.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi235\li72\ri188\sb83\sl181\slmult0\qj\tx159\tx150\tx150\tx140\tx126\cf1\f0\fs12 3. \i Encourage continuous feedback. \i0 The term \i feedback \i0 originated from \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab electronics in relation to sound systems. It simply means the return of the \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab effects of a process to its source. in communication, this is the response. \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab Accepting feedback, or response, from the receiver will let you know \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab what he understands. This involves \i listening, \i0 which is an important part \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab\expndtw1 of communication. Listen in this case means to "Listen with full \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\f0\fs12 attention." The church should not require a  "suggestion box" for \cf0\expndtw0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 communication to flow freely. The pastor needs to maintain a climate of \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 healthy exchange and back and forth flow of communication.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\fi201\li19\ri294\sb100\sl167\slmult0\qj\tx78\tx73\cf1\f0\fs12 4. \i Use correct, precise language. \i0 Use exact terms whenever possible, \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab and not vague terms that may sound as though you want to conceal \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12\tab something. Use words that the hearers will understand. They will not be \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 impressed by complicated terms that arc strange to them. Avoid terms \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 such as: a lot; a short time; only a few. If there is a problem, speak \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 directly and clearly to the person involved, not in vague terms to a group \cf0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\f0\fs12 which leaves the impression that some unknown person is at fault-\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li8755\sl138\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li10\sb45\sl138\slmult0\cf1\f0\fs12 8 Briefly describe the communication process.\cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10593\sl69\slmult0\fs24\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\li1838\sb3\sl69\slmult0\cf1\b\f2\fs6\bullet\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li13713\sl158\slmult0\fs24\page\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par

\pard\fi24\li24\ri1362\sb75\sl158\slmult0\qj\tx356\tx726\cf1\f0\fs12 OBJECTIVE \i\fs10 S. \fs12 Describe \cf0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\expndtw1\i\f0\fs10 the leader's responsibilities \cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\line\cf1\i\f0\fs10 in \i0\tab\expndtw1\i the \expndtw0\i0\tab\expndtw1\i comalunicatton\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li13665\sl69\slmult0\fs24\par

\pard\li10\sb15\sl69\slmult0\cf1\expndtw16\i\f0\fs6 process.\cf0\expndtw0\i0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li6595\sb13\sl69\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs6 ,7\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb8\sl69\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs6\page Ire\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sb1\sl66\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs6\page 7,111111 a\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\li10\sl54\slmult0\cf1\b\f0\fs6\page\f2\bullet\f0   III -1.1-AM.111\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par
\cf1\expndtw10\b\f0\fs6\page , \f2\bullet\f0 -\f2\bullet\f0    v\cf0\expndtw0\b0\f1\fs22\par
\cf1\b\f0\fs6\page\f2\bullet\f0 s.s.\cf0\b0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sl240\slmult1\fs12\par

\pard\li3724\sb1\sl54\slmult0\tx3859\tx4579\tx5140\cf1\b\f0\fs6 1\b0\tab\b r\b0\tab\expndtw-1\b 11\expndtw0 M\expndtw-4 1111,\expndtw0\b0\tab\b 1-1 \f2\emdash\f0 1' la "1111\f2\emdash\f0  \b0\i r\super\fs9 f \b\i0 MIN ,r\f2\bullet\f0 IYINT\cf0\nosupersub\b0\f1\fs22\par
}
 